Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Bello Shagari has disclosed the only way he believes Bola Tinubu can get enough votes from the North during the 2023 presidential election.
Bello Shagari made this disclosure on Twitter following the results of the the All Progressive Congress presidential primary election.
In his tweet, Bello Shagari said that Nigerians are left with very difficult decisions to make. While explaining the two difficult decisions Nigerians are left with, he said that they either have to vote for another eight years of Northern leadership, or go for a Muslim-Muslim ticket.
According to him, Muslim-Muslim ticket is the only way Bola Tinubu can gather the required Northern votes.
From his tweet, it is clear that Bello Shagari believes that North has a great role to play when it comes to winning an election. He believes that Bola Tinubu needs the votes of the Northerners if he must beat Atiku Abubarka of the People’s Democratic Party in the forthcoming presidential election.
Many people believe that the North somehow determines who wins an election because of their numbers. Some people believe that they have about 70 percent of the votes that come during general elections.
It is on the above belief that Bello Shagari said that Northern votes are required for Tinubu to win the 2023 general election.
To Bello Shagari, if Bola Tinubu didn’t choose a Northern as his Vice President, Nigerians may be voting for another 8 years of Northern leadership. This means that if the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress fails to pick a Northerner as his Vice President, Atiku Abubarka of the People’s Democratic Party, who is a Northerner will win the election, meaning that Nigerians will have to wait for another 8 years before choosing another president.
But if Bola Tinubu chooses a Muslim Northerner as his Vice President, he will pull Northern votes for himself and will eventually win the election.
Do you support Muslim-Muslim ticket?


Share this on WhatsApp