Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
There are findings that deaths from vaccine-induced myocarditis and heart attack risk among youth linked to COVID-19 jabs, have continued to rise, also, the effectiveness of COVID vaccines has been so low in children.
The cause of death of a healthy 36-year-old mother of two children who died 11 days after receiving a Pfizer COVID-19 shot, was said to be inconclusive. However, at inquest, a pathologist, Dr. Sukhvinder Ghataura, disclosed that the COVID-19 vaccine administered to the woman caused her death.  was to blame. Dr. Sukhvinder Ghataura had reported to the coroner: “On the balance of probabilities, she had vaccine-related problems. There is nothing else for me to hang my hat on. It is the most likely reason, in my conclusion. It is more than likely Dawn died in response to the Covid jab.”
Even when Government officials continue to deny deaths linked to Pfizer’s mRNA COVID-19 vaccine jabs, the U.S. admitted only nine deaths as causally linked to Johnson and Johnson’s COVID-19 shot as of May 10, 2022. The incident in the U.K., revealed the potential dangers of shot-induced myocarditis.
Ghataura maintained that the woman had several signs of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart muscle, including inflammation of the heart, fluid in the lungs and a small clot in her lungs.
He added that she also reported menstrual irregularities, jaw pain and arm pain.4 When asked by a family member whether he believed Ghataura told the family that “it is a difficult, but I would say yes,” that the woman would still be alive if she had not received the COVID vaccine jab.
Assistant coroner Alison McCormick at the conclusion of the inquest on  the woman’s death,  had stated, “I give the narrative conclusion that her death was caused by acute myocarditis, due to recent Covid-19 immunization.”
Myocarditis is a recognized adverse effect of mRNA COVID-19 shots, and one that has been named in other deaths.
It was also disclosed that Dr. Neil Singh Dhalla, CEO of a major health clinic, fell asleep four days after he received a COVID-19 booster shot, and later died from a heart attack. Dhalla was said to be 48 years old and never had heart problems in his life. The autopsy indicated he died of myocarditis.
Epidemiologists in another incident   confirmed that two teenage boys from different U.S. states died of myocarditis days after receiving the Pfizer shot.
The two teenage boys had received second doses of the shot. The autopsy findings revealed that the “myocarditis” described in the boys’ deaths is “not typical myocarditis pathology”:10
“The myocardial injury seen in these post-vaccine hearts is different from typical myocarditis and has an appearance most closely resembling a catecholamine-mediated stress (toxic) cardiomyopathy. Understanding that these instances are different from typical myocarditis and that cytokine storm has a known feedback loop with catecholamines may help guide screening and therapy,” the autopsy report disclosed.
Share this on WhatsApp