Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It’s that time of the month again, when the week is likely to be full of cramps, mood swings and toilet visits at the most random of times. Yes, we’re talking about menstruation.
Although many, if not all, suffer from these menstrual symptoms, some women have even worse problems. A recent health survey found that 50-90% of women in Singapore suffer from dysmenorrhoea, or extremely painful periods. These episodes can be so severe that they interfere with even simple daily activities such as walking or working.
Some menstrual pains have more serious causes, while others may be due to severe cramps in the uterus. If you’re one of those wondering about your menstrual health, here are five signs that all is well.
Your menstrual blood is bright red
This means there is enough blood in the uterus. Blood flow is also stable, with no sudden bursts or clots.
Menstruation lasts between 4 and 7 days
On average, menstruation should last between 4 and 7 days, and if it is shorter or longer than that, it may indicate problems with your reproductive health. A full menstrual cycle should last between 26 and 32 days.
Bleed only during your period
If you’ve never had your period except on the days you’re supposed to have it, you’re on the right track. But many women also experience spotting or bleeding during ovulation, and this is perfectly normal as long as it’s not too heavy or painful.
Your periods are usually regular
Over the years, your period may have missed a few times – probably due to stress – but it’s not something you need to experience every month. As long as you don’t bleed more in the months you don’t than in the months you do, you don’t have much to worry about.
You’ll feel nothing but warmth in your lower abdomen and in the female parts
A healthy period is also a painless period. You only feel a warm sensation down there and at most occasional cramps. These cramps don’t make you writhe in pain or run into a hot shower.


Share this on WhatsApp