Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 






There are reports that the Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, Alhaji Abdulaziz Olajide Adediran, popularly called Jandor, may have joined the ADC candidate in Rivers State, Tonte Ibraye, who nominated female Actor, Tonto Dikeh as his running mate for the 2023 Governorship election in the state, to have penciled down five names as his running mates too.
The story has it that Nollywood actor, Olufunke Akindele, also known as Jenifa, the former governorship candidate Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, the former senatorial candidate for Lagos East Yeye Shobajo, the current governorship candidate David Kolawole Vaughan, also known as DAKOVA, and engineer Teslim Balogun are among the names that have been shortlisted for the possible names to be considered as his running mates.
Akindele may have been selected as the deputy governorship candidate after a picture of Jandor and her went viral on Friday, almost after that of Tonto Dikeh and Tonte Abraye came out public.
The female actor was just listed as a potential running companion, according to checks done by Daily Trust correspondent, and the choice of the governorship candidate’s running mate has not yet been made, as it was gathered that a committee has been formed to evaluate the candidates and select the best one to serve as Jandor’s running mate, but a meeting of stakeholders of the party is ongoing to select one of the nominees.
However, it was learnt that Rhodes-Vivour and Kolawole, two of the shortlisted candidates, are from Lagos West, the same senatorial area as Jandor, which may hurt their prospects. Balogun is from Lagos Central, while Yeye Shobajo and Funke Akindele are from the East.
The female actor was just listed as a potential running companion, according to checks done by Daily Trust correspondent, and the choice of the governorship candidate’s running mate has not yet been made, as it was gathered that a committee has been formed to evaluate the candidates and select the best one to serve as Jandor’s running mate, but a meeting of stakeholders of the party is ongoing to select one of the nominees.
However, it was learnt that Rhodes-Vivour and Kolawole, two of the shortlisted candidates, are from Lagos West, the same senatorial area as Jandor, which may hurt their prospects. Balogun is from Lagos Central, while Yeye Shobajo and Funke Akindele are from the East.
A woman being considered for the running mate position has a compelling argument, according to a source, who on the condition of anonymity, a party chieftain disclosed that discussions are still going on to choose the best candidate.
The source also claimed that one of the factors taken into account was the possible candidate’s influence over the voting public, especially with the souring influence of the current Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, whose 4 years as Governor has not been anything less than excellence in his performance output.
But, Funke Akindele’s Ex-Convict status may stand as a huge challenge against her choice, even though the Governor had pardoned her and her husband.






Share this on WhatsApp