Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-South and Southeast, at a courtesy visit to Dr Nicolas Felix, an APC presidential aspirant, at his residence in Abuja, adopted their host as the zones consensus candidate for APC presidential primaries holding on June 6.
The southern delegates noted that Dr. Felix is young, vibrant, exposed, and energetic for the country’s leadership, adding that he will defeat the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar, in the 2023 elections.
The coalition disclosed that they are holding deliberations with other presidential aspirants from the southeast and south-south to step down Dr. Nicolas Felix.
According to the leader of the coalition, Ifeanyi Okechukwu, “There’s no time on our side, we need to finalise on this because we don’t want a repeat of what happened at the PDP primary to repeat itself. We need to attend the primary as united as possible.
“We are already in talks with other aspirants from the two regions – Dr. Ogbonnanya Onu, Godswill Akpabio, Rotimi Amaechi, Ben Ayade, among others to drop their ambitions and support Dr Nicolas Felix
“We see Dr Felix’s qualities and his unblemished character, he’s pure, just, and undented. He’s unlike many other aspirants who have been in and out of power. They are practically parts of the problems Nigeria is facing now. We can’t continue with these set of people.”
The Women Leader of the coalition, Mrs. Ngozi Chinonzo, commended the commitment of Felix to the wellness and wellbeing of Nigerians, irrespective of their tribe and religion. According to Chinonzo: “We work till victory is achieved. We can’t continue to recycle the same set of politicians who brought us to this present situation. Your excellency sir, you are young, vibrant and energetic, more importantly, you have the fear of God and we believe you will change the narrative for better.”
Dr. Felix thanked the southeast, south-south coalition for their support and commitment to his presidential aspiration, promising that he will not disappoint anyone.
Felix scaled through the APC screening on Monday.
Share this on WhatsApp