Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Chairperson of the House of Representatives Committee on Electoral Matters, Aisha Dukku, has said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) didn’t promise to extend voter registration by 60 days.
Speaking on the floor of the House earlier on Wednesday, Dukku had said INEC agreed to extend the deadline, but has several activities on its timetable ahead of the 2023 general election which makes it not viable to extend the deadline by 60 days.
The House of Representatives had asked INEC to extend the deadline by 60 days, following the June 30 closing date set by the electoral body.
“He (INEC chairman) has already agreed to extend but for the court injunction he is to appear on the 29th of June,” she had said.
“That notwithstanding, he said it has been guaranteed that it has to be extended, and not just extending, but also it would additionally be done during weekends. He has agreed to that and he is going to make a statement very soon to that effect.
READ ALSO: INEC agrees to shift voter registration by 60 days
“That extension also involves additional machines, additional ad-hoc staff, and of course, he’s going to collaborate with the security agencies to make sure that is also done.
“So, all the prayers of the motion were approved and all members of the committee were there, including the mover of the motion.”
Dukku said Mahmood Yakubu, INEC chairman, only promised to “look at” the request of the lower legislative chamber.
“Part of what INEC told the house through the committee on electoral matters is that they are going to look at our request. However, whatever happens, they cannot be able to open the registration for the next 60 days because of the activities lined up before the general election,” she said.
“And so, it will not be possible. This is the statement— for INEC to extend for the days we requested. However, they will go back and look at their timeline and look at how possible they will be able to increase the days for registration.
“Mind you, they are already in court. The court has stopped them from closing the date for registration. In essence, INEC will inform Nigerians as to how many days they will be able to extend the registration in view of other milestones that they have to achieve.”

Share this on WhatsApp