Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) says the successful deployment of 5G technology nationwide requires synergy from several critical stakeholders in the country.
Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Danbatta disclosed this while speaking at the Nigeria DIGITALSENSE forum on Internet Governance for Development (IG4D).
He noted that to ensure readiness of the telecommunications industry for the deployment of the 5G technology network in Nigeria, there must be synergy among the critical stakeholders.
He said that these stakeholders play a critical role in unlocking the vast potential of 5G stressing that this potential can be achieved by collaboration and partnership with various stakeholders in the telecoms industry ecosystem and ensuring the provision of robust government policies and excellent regulatory framework being implemented.
READ ALSO: Key achievements of NCC’s Strategic Vision Plan 2021-2025
The boss of the Commission who was represented by the Head of Spectrum at NCC, Mr Abraham Oshadami said that the fifth generation (5G) technology is expected to fundamentally transform the role that telecommunications technology plays in society.
“Within any administration, the Government is required to put in place excellent policies that would foster innovation and development. As policymakers, the government should also consider undertaking its own independent economic and social assessment and viability of deploying new technologies (such as 5G in this case) with a view to providing a clear regulatory direction that will enable all relevant stakeholders including the network operators to make informed decisions that will ensure the deployment of these technologies in a manner that is most beneficial to the Nation and its citizens”, he said.
As for the operators, Danbatta said, “they must continue to invest in new infrastructures and capabilities, think more innovatively, identify and design novel business models and enrich their insights from other partners, regions and industries.”
He added: “It is important that they integrate their next-generation networks that will provide the flexibility required to foster growth and innovation in the mobile communications ecosystem.”
Danbatta urged regulators to collaborate and to facilitate the exchange of similar ideas, views, and experiences amongst industry experts through appropriate avenues for regular participation in relevant Conferences, Fora, symposia and Workshops.
He added that as a regulator, the NCC, already identified the unique benefits and the role of IMT technology particularly 5G services in accomplishing the Digital Economy objectives of the Government.
He noted the efforts the NCC has demonstrated in the smooth uptake of previous technologies (2G, 3G & 4G) and the “ones we are implementing to ensure the deployment and adoption of 5G infrastructure and services in Nigeria.”
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp