Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 



Nigerians on Twitter have started mocking the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, over the controversy surrounding his certificates.
In a document submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  and seen by Newsbreak.ng, Tinubu left the section for his primary and secondary schools vacant.
This has raised further questions about his presidential ambition.



In his defence, according to an affidavit attached to the document sent to INEC, Tinubu said that his documents were stolen by ‘unknown persons’ while he was away on self-exile.



Reacting, some Twitter users have these to say:

Bola Ahmed Oluwole Tinubu. If you don’t get it forget about it.
— Timilehin Ojemakinde (@CEOTimiAfrica) June 25, 2022

Trader wey no forge Certificate take find work na him I go vote for. No be King of Oluwole Certificate AKA Baba Chicago!
— Maimunah Hanafi (@NphyM) June 25, 2022

Alot of fake certificate. Only Baba can’t be the only one in a class. We know Gej classmates then. Who were his classmates? Akpako/Oluwole everywhere https://t.co/vcwitHCZPV
— Victoria Stanley (@Victori10459108) June 25, 2022

This is not been tribal or generalizing but is a known fact that Most Lagos boys travelled to Overseas with Oluwole Certificate and Tinubu is surely one of them. I guess he was encourage by the fake certificate issued to Buhari to think he can pull this one too.
— Onyeamama 2 of Igboland. (@DaveTorty) June 25, 2022

Lol na dem Tinubu pioneer this Oluwole certificate business. Not even surprised.
— Shehu Yusuf (@itsshehu) June 25, 2022

People have forgotten that Oluwole was in its prime then. https://t.co/Z4MN23aEZP
— Rotham (@Rothamhouse) June 25, 2022

Have you heard of Emi lokan oluwole credentials?
Allegedly signed & seal by PA Afikuyomi.
If you endorse fraud, follow this senile man. pic.twitter.com/citz9dhB0K
— O. O. Nwani (LP) (@BarrTailorson) June 25, 2022



Share this on WhatsApp