Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


By Kingsley Chukwuka

The Management of Jos Electricity Distribution Plc has appealed to the Management of the Benue State Board of Internal Revenue Service to unseal their premises to enable the company to keep rendering services to members of the public.

The Electricity company appealed yesterday through a press statement by its Head, Corporate Communications, Dr Friday Adakole Elijah following the sealing of its premises in the Makurdi and Gboko areas of the State.

Not knowing where to operate, the management of the electricity outfit disrupted services to forestall what the company described as an avoidable accident, Elijah said in a statement sent to our correspondent in Jos Thursday.

According to the statement: “You may have observed that there is currently no power supply in the Makurdi and Gboko areas of Benue State. This is as a result of the sealing of our operational offices in the aforestated areas today. The sealing had affected our command & control centre and other critical operational offices.

“The command and control centre manages the switching operations, distribution activities and load allocation, to serve our esteemed customers safely as well as avoid grid system collapse. The offices where work tools and spare parts are warehoused were equally sealed up, making it difficult to carry out some activities aimed at maintaining the power supply.

“The general public may wish to know that allowing our equipment on supply, unmanned shall constitute a great risk with potential accidents to the general public.

“It was on this basis, that the Management of Jos Electricity Distribution Plc decided to interrupt power in the interest of the public to prevent avoidable accidents and equipment failures until the situation is resolved.

“The Management of Jos Electricity Distribution Plc is therefore pleading with the Management of Benue Inland Revenue Services to unseal all the premises sealed as we continue to discuss the way forward on the resolution of the indebtedness of each other, in the overall interest of the good people of Benue State and our Company”, the statement reads.

Meanwhile, the company disclosed that it has commenced the creation of temporary command and control centres to enable restoration of service where possible for now.

Jos DisCo while thanking the customers for their understanding and cooperation, also pleads with them to bear with it as the company was working towards the restoration of services to all the nooks and crannies of the State.




 
Share this on WhatsApp