Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Prominent members of the Lagos All Progressives Congress (APC) have congratulated the national leader of the party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for having emerged a clear winner in the party’s presidential primary election.

Blaizing the trail of those on the felicitation sprees was Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, Speaker Lagos State House of Assembly, he described Asiwaju’s winning as a landslide victory, while urging Nigerians for much more support for him at the 2023 general elections.

Obasa, who noted that the primary election had every feature of seriousness in a democratic setting, described the victory as well-deserved for Tinubu.

Describing the election as free and fair, the Speaker commended other aspirants in the exercise “for putting in a good fight. I also specially commend all those who took the last-minute decision to relinquish their aspiration in support of Tinubu, the father of modern Lagos.

“The outcome of this primary election is the result of hard work and the support of critical stakeholders across the length and breadth of this country who love Asiwaju. It is interesting and exciting how the exercise held under a peaceful atmosphere ended.

“This victory is not for Asiwaju alone. It is for our great party. It is for well-meaning Nigerians who aspire for a greater country,” Obasa said.


Prince Lanre Sanusi (PLS), APC’s flag bearer Amuwo-Odofin Federal Constituency for the House of Representatives, has also expressed his joy over Asiwaju’s victory, citing the fact that he remains the only one amongst other aspirants with the magic wand to address the ailing status of the country.

The preferred candidate for Amuwo-Odofin Reps, PLS in a statement by his media office notes that he has foreseen Asiwaju’s victory prior to the primaries, given the fact that his political sagacity is unmatched by others in the race.

Prince Lanre Sanusi said that: “I was so much convinced even prior to this day when it became reality, that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will emerged victorious.

“It is clear to all that BAT has paid his dues in virtually all spheres of life and clearly our national delegates owe him allegiance to recompense his selfless service to our party thus far.

“More than ever before, I urge all electorates to get ready with their PVCS to vote Asiwaju come 2023 general elections, by so doing we would have made good the divine mandate that he becomes our President.

“Going by his antecedents while still a Governor of a cosmopolitan Lagos state, Asiwaju possess all the prerequisites to fix Nigeria, by voting him in a total overhauling of our economy is a certainty, moreso the nation’s unity which is clearly threatened will be restored.

” I congratulate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu once again, Daddy you are our incoming President by the special grace of God.”


Chief (Mrs) Lucy Ajayi, a member of APC Merger Committee and immediate past CEO of Lagos International Tradefair Management Board, also Member Of The Presidential advisory Committee On Prerogative Of Mercy, in her congratulatory message to Asiwaju described the process that churned him out as the most democratic and transparent in the country.

“The democratic process that churned Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as APC flag bearer remains the most transparent in the Country.

“I call on other aspirants who contended with Asiwaju for the party’s ticket to show maturity and spirit of sportsmanship by rallying round ABAT to ensure eventual victory for APC in the 2023 general elections.”

Share this on WhatsApp