Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

An Edo state-based medical doctor and pediatrician, Dr. Chiamaka Ogbonnaya has been arrested by the police for alleged assault and battery of her housemaid.
The suspect, who works with the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH), Edo State, was accused of frequently abusing the victim who is simply identified as Comfort, a Junior Secondary School 2 student.
The medical practitioner was accused of brutalizing the girl frequently on her rib cage with a mopping stick, cane and whatever object she laid her hands on.
She was further accused of sending her out of the house and giving her raw rice to eat for one week.
Edo Police Command’s spokesman, SP Chidi Nwabuzor, confirmed the arrest of the doctor.
He said: “Dr Ogbonayan Chiamaka of Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital was actually arrested by Irrua Division on the alleged offence of child abuse and battering and currently the matter is under the investigation of the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of investigation that is SCID.”
READ ALSO: Bandits invade police station in Kogi, kill one personnel
Nwabuzor added that further development would be made known to the public.
Also, when contacted, the State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe, said she would respond once she got the full report of the case.
She, however, warned that there is zero-tolerance for the abuse of children in Edo State.
“At the Ministry of Education, we take very seriously the social safeguarding of all our pupils and students. There is the Child Rights Law which stipulates all kinds of punishment, including jail term for adults who abuse children.
“A child who has been traumatised at home will not be able to learn at school. His Excellency, Gov. Obaseki has given us the mandate to ensure quality and relevant education across all levels of education and under our EdoBEST 2.0 education reform agenda, psycho-social support for all our learners is a priority,” she added.
Share this on WhatsApp