Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has restated his government’s commitment to provision of qualitative healthcare delivery for the overall wellbeing of the people of the state.
The governor also assured inhabitants of the riverine communities that the government would not leave out any community or area in its resolve to ensure a healthy population in the state.
Akeredolu made the commitment on Wednesday at Ode-Ugbo, at the opening of a free medical outreach for residents of oil producing areas of the riverine communities in Ilaje Local Government Area of the state.
The programme, which was coordinated by the Amalgamation of Ilaje Ugbo Coastal Communities Association (AMAICOMMA), was sponsored by Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL).
The governor, who was represented by Dr Banji Ajaka, the state Commissioner for Health, lauded CNL for its magnanimous gesture and commended the peaceful relationship between the oil giant and the host communities.
“Health is wealth; there is little one can do with an unstable health, this underscores the importance of this programme,” the governor said.
Akeredolu commended the impressive turnout of the residents for the programme and made passionate appeal that they should make good use of the mosquito nets donated during the exercise.
He further urged the women, aged and children, primary targets of the programme, to embrace inoculation, especially for the children, stressing “the importance of this cannot be overemphasised”.
Mr Wole Ogungbeje, a representative of AMAICOMMA, said that the outreach was to bring healthcare delivery to the residents at grassroots.
Ogungbeje noted that the riverine communities lacked adequate medical facilities which made access to medical care difficult for residents.
“I commend CNL for sponsoring this initiative and bringing it to the peoples’ doorsteps. I urge them to sustain the programme,” he said.
Mr Nimbe Tawose, Managing Director of Jokunbod Tunyat and Associates, the vendor that implemented the laudable initiative, described the exercise as “a health awareness programme”.
Tawose expressed concern over the high number of residents discovered to have high blood pressure and advised the people on the need for regular medical check-up and giving their health utmost priority.
Chief Jackson Ebiwonjumi, the Baale of Ebiwon community commended CNL for the initiative and urged them to do more
The traditional ruler also called on the state government to provide more medical facilities in the area.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the multi-million naira exercise was carried out in several communities including Eke Itiola, Ogungbeje, Ilu Abo and Ode Ugbo, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp