Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Strategic Vision Plan (SVP 2021-2025) launched by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to ensure the implementation of the Government’s well-developed policies has yielded some key achievements.
The NCC had designed the SVP to achieve among others: Organizational Renewal for Operational Efficiency and Regulatory Excellence; Facilitating the Provision of Infrastructure for Digital Economy which fosters National Development; Promoting Fair Competition, and Facilitating Strategic Collaboration and Partnership.
Thus, in line with this SVP, the Commission in collaboration and with full support of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy under the Leadership of Professor Isa Pantami has recorded significant success in the drive toward National Digital Economy for a Digital Nigeria.
The following are some of the achievements:
Creation of a full-fledged department of Digital Economy with a mandate amongst others to ensure that the programs and targets set in the NNBP 2020-2025 and NDEPS 2020 – 2030 are rigorously pursued, tracked, and attained.
INFRACO Companies have been licensed to deploy fibre on an Open Access basis in Six Geopolitical Zones of the country and Lagos State. Approval to commence rollout was given in April 2021.
Developed and secured the Federal Executive Council Approval of the Nigerian 5G Policy to guide deployments of 5G services in Nigeria. All thanks to the Honourable Minister of Communication & Digital Economy – Prof. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami.
READ ALSO: NCC reiterates commitment to meeting Nigerian National Broadband Plan
Successfully licensed 2 lots of 100 MHz bandwidth in the 3.5 GHz Spectrum band for 5G Deployment in December 2021.
Set up and expanded the Internet Exchange Point capacity of 930 MB/s for Abuja to Lagos Route, 620 MB/s for Abuja to Kano Route, and 310 MB/s for Lagos to Port Harcourt Route.
Landed total Offshore Broadband Capacity of 50.74 TB comprising 40TB Submarine and 10.74 TB of Satellite and the figures are already set for increase even as we speak.
Followed up on the global industry trends on the 5G Spectrums such as the 26 GHz, 38 GHz and 42 GHz bands harmonized in WRC-19.
Updated the National Frequency Allocation Table (NFAT) to reflect the outcome of the WRC-19.
Opened up the 60 GHz V-band.
Opened up the 70/80GHz E-band for both point-to-point and point-to-multi-point deployments.
Developed and published the Spectrum Trading Guidelines amongst other benefits.


Share this on WhatsApp