Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Eggs are one of the most widely consumed hen products in almost every country. It is a rich source of minerals and nutrients that the body requires to function properly.
Boiling, frying, and other methods of preparation can be used to prepare your eggs but it is dependent on what purpose you want it to serve in your food. For those who love to have their eggs boiled, there is a mistake that many people have made that has hurt their health. This post will inform you about it and show you how to avoid it.
How eggs are produced?
Hens lay eggs, which travel through their anus, the same location as they defecate. Microorganisms such as Escherichia coli (E.coli), Salmonella germs, and Cryptosporidium thrive in the alimentary canal of fowls, and these bacteria can readily pass through the hen’s feces. On occasion, traces of feces have been discovered on the eggs deposited by these fowls.
Preparation of egg.
Many people like to boil their eggs inside the food they intend to eat, allowing them to cook all at the same time. If you’re one of them, you’re probably going to get infected with one of the organisms that live in the fowl’s intestines, especially if the stains from the poop are evident on the eggshell. When these organisms are consumed together with your food, they can cause serious health problems which include:
1. E.coli: It causes abdominal pains and a low-grade fever.
2. Salmonellosis: It is caused by the Salmonella bacteria and manifests itself as diarrhea, fever, and abdominal aches.
3. Cryptosporidium: It causes the same symptoms as Salmonellosis, but complications can include gallbladder inflammation, liver inflammation, and pancreatic inflammation.
What are the precautions?
If you’re one of those people that boils their eggs in the same water they use to make tea, pap, and other things. Don’t make the mistake of putting an egg in your food without thoroughly cleaning it first.
If you don’t completely wash the eggs before putting them in the water, you are exposing yourself to the above-mentioned health risk.


Share this on WhatsApp