Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The Ace journalist, Babajide Kolade Otitoju, has revealed that the APC’s presidential primary election may not hold after all, accusing the President of knowing this before traveling to Madrid, Spain.
He revealed this while fielding questions on Television Continental, TVC’s, program, Journalist Hangout, on Wednesday.
He stated that no President would travel out of the country at a critical time like this if he actually wanted the primary election to hold.
Following the conclusion of the APC’s presidential screening of it’s aspirants yesterday and the subsequent meeting of President Muhammadu Buhari and some party leaders, allegation of imposition of a successor or consensus candidate came to the fore.

Mr Otitoju maintains that talking about consensus candidate does not make any sense at this eleventh hour. Describing it as undemocratic, he said it is wrong for few people to decide for the entire party.
Mr Otitoju made reference to the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, which conducted it’s primary election over the weekend without any rancour. Wondering why the ruling party was afraid of conducting a presidential primary, he admonished APC to march what the PDP had done by choosing its candidate that will be acceptable to all.
He warned the President not to force an unpopular aspirant on the party as this would give Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the PDP flagbearer, a resounding victory at the polls.
He insisted that President Muhammadu Buhari does not have the power to choose for APC, stating that only party delegates have such constitutional power.

At the moment, President Muhammadu Buhari is in Madrid, the capital of Spain, amidst uncertainty of the ruling party’s Presidential primary election.
Ministers who accompanied him on the trip are Geoffrey Onyeama (Foreign Affairs), Abubakar Malami (Justice), Adeniyi Adebayo (Industry, Trade, and Investment), Lai Mohammed (Information and Culture), Rauf Aregbesola (Interior), Sunday Dare (Youth and Sports Development), and Olorunnimbe Mamora (Health – State).


Share this on WhatsApp