Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), has joined forces with several groups and public institutions, including the Nigerian Senate, that are insisting on the investigation of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, for corruption allegations after he resigned from office on Monday, citing ill health.
CACOL in a statement in Lagos by the Director of Administration and Programmes, Tola Oresanwo, on behalf of the Chairman, Debo Adeniran, highlighted: “The recent report about the resignation of the 17th Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, is very laudable.
“First and foremost, we would like to commend the courage of the outgone Chief Justice of Nigeria for taking a bold step that is not too common in this part of the world. Although he resigned due to ill health, we hope other public office holders will take a cue from this action of the Ex-CJN by quitting at the right time, especially, when they have been alleged to commit some official infractions or what is popularly referred to as gross misconduct”.
CACOL recalled that Justice Muhammad’s resignation followed quickly on the heels of the allegations of mismanagement of funds leveled against him by 14 justices of the Supreme Court. The Justices of the apex Supreme Court had, in a joint petition, accused the Ex CJN of poor welfare, among other ill-treatment being meted out to them. In the leaked petition, the 14 justices accused the CJN of abandoning his responsibilities and diverting funds meant for the running of the Supreme Court.
“This is an unprecedented development in Nigeria’s judicial history and it will go down in history as one of the highlights of the tenure of the outgone CJN.
“But the man in the eye of the storm, Justice Muhammad, in a statement by his aide, titled: ‘Re: State Of Affairs In The Supreme Court And Demand By Justices Of The Supreme Court’, denied the allegations,” CACOL stated.
The group declared: “We at CACOL would like to state expressly that all the allegations leveled against the out gone CJN should be thoroughly investigated by the Nigerian Judicial Council (NJC), the Code of Conduct Tribunal and the various anti-corruption agencies in the country, swift prosecution should as well follow and he should be punished if found guilty of any of the allegations so as to deter others.
“We would also like to congratulate Justice Olukayode Ariwoola on his appointment as the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria. We urge him to live above board and write his name in gold by carrying out extensive reforms in the judiciary that will facilitate speedy dispensation of justice like we have in other climes while carrying along other supreme court Justices”.
 
Share this on WhatsApp