Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu has called on Nigerians to unite against terrorists who are spreading terror in the land with the aim of breaking the collective spirit of Nigerians.
He stated this in a statement on Sunday in reaction to the attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State where over fifty worshipers were murdered during early morning Mass service.
While commiserating with the Ondo state government and its people, Tinubu described the reprehensible and therefore called for immediate arrest of the perpetrators.
According to him, the only thing that can be said for sure is that the perpetrators are evil and they should be subjected to the full measure of the law and justice.
“No one can discern the darkness in the mind of those that will kill people who are merely engaged in the harmless practice of their faith. “This violent attack has shocked the conscience of the nation and shattered the peace of this ancient town,” he said.
READ ALSO: Tinubu begs Buhari, says, “My Respect For Buhari High, Unfailing”
He expressed sadness over the dastardly act, however, said that those who committed the act had made a terrible mistake.
“They think they can break our collective spirit and our will to live in peace and with compassion to all regardless of faith.” He said.
“What they have done will not pull us apart. We must unite so that together, we extinguish this evil from our nation” he added.
“This, we owe to ourselves and to those who lost their lives in this heinous attack.” Tinubu urged the people to continue to do all that they could to beat the vile challenge so that Nigeria would become its better self. He said the architects of violence would only seal their own fate but not the fate of the nation or the peace-loving people who inhabit it. The All Progressives Congress presidential hopeful said that although it is political season, he, however, urged all to put aside partisan affiliation and politics for the moment.
READ ALSO: APC chairman talks tough on Tinubu’s comment, threatens
He, therefore, asked Nigerians to stand and commiserate with Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) the families of the victims of the attack, and the people of Owo and Ondo states.
“I too mourn and extend my condolences to the pastors and leaders of St. Francis Catholic Church. I urge the people of the state to remain calm and peaceful. “May God watch over this republic and the people of Nigeria such that such evil is quickly and forever extinguished from the land,” he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp