Cockroaches on the dishwasher sponge The dirty sink has nasty cockroaches, food scavengers, and is also a disease carrier in the digestive tract. On the background, dishwashing sponge.selective focus
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
If you find yourself battling with cockroaches in your home, it can be easy to call on a professional immediately. However, the best cockroach deterrents may be hiding in your kitchen cabinet.
From coffee grounds to dish detergent – these cockroach repellents can help get rid of cockroaches naturally, and permanently. Of course, prevention is better than cure, and we have included ways to discourage cockroaches from entering your home in the first place, too.
Here are five organic methods that you can try instantly.

SUGAR AND BORAX

‘Borax is effective for roach infestations because it will slowly dry the exoskeleton of the insects, affect their digestive system and finally kill them,’ Natasha says.
Entomologists recommend mixing borax and sugar in a 3:1 ratio before spreading the homemade detergent in the spots where you have noticed them.

PEPPERMINT OIL

Peppermint oil is one of the most celebrated pest control deterrents on the market, so it is unsurprising that this remedy is effective in curing a cockroach infestation, too.
A peppermint oil spray can deter roaches in a non-toxic way and is safe to use around children,’ Natasha says. The expert suggests mixing 15 drops of peppermint oil with 10 ounces of water before spraying the formula around infested areas.

DISH DETERGENT

A mixture of water and soap can suffocate and kill cockroaches and is especially effective against German roaches. Mix four tablespoons of dish detergent in a liter of water and spray it where you’ve noticed activity,’ the Entomologist says.

COFFEE GROUNDS

Did you know you can use coffee grounds to clean furniture? And that coffee grounds are good for plants? Well, you can also use some residue from your coffee maker to deter these pests – but not in the way you might initially expect. Cockroaches are attracted to the aroma of ground coffee – meaning it can create the perfect trap.
Put the grounds in small paper cups and place those cups in water-filled jars, then place the jar against walls or baseboards where you’ve seen bugs,’ she instructs. The scent will lure the pests into the trap where they are unable to escape, so you can dispose of the contents the following day.

LEMON JUICE

Lemon juice provides a sweet-smelling elimination option, as lemons possess natural anti-pathogenic properties that keep roaches away,’ Natasha says. Sharing her cleaning tips, the expert recommends adding two to three tablespoons of lemon juice with a few gallons of water in a bucket before mixing and washing the problem areas with a mop in the solution.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp