Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Nigeria Police Force has reacted to the news of an alleged kidnap involving one Ameerah and 17 others making rounds on social media.
A lady identified as @Ameerah_sufyan on social media had tweeted yesterday by 1:16pm saying that she and over a dozen others were abducted at gunpoint, adding that she sent a broadcast message of her location to her Whatsapp contacts.
She tweeted, “Please whoever has my whatsapp number I sent a broadcast message of my location, we were abducted at gunpoint by PPL with police uniform and a van from our houses from different parts of Abuja, we are 17 including 3 pregnant women and two little kids, they didn’t see my phone.”
READ ALSO: Police graduate 6 PhD holders, 169 others as spies
A few hours later she tweeted, “They’re 4 Yoruba and two Fulani men. They divided us up an hour ago we’re 7 here.  The other vehicle said they will reach Ilorin and ours will reach Ibadan or Ikeja as they said.”
The Nigeria Police Force FCT Command with the handle @policeng_fct on Twitter wrote, “Investigation is in progress, we thank everyone for the many helpful information coming from all our quarters and urge all to exercise calm and patience as we get to the root of this.
In its subsequent messages, it wrote, “Our message might just be reaching the social media space but If a thousand actions has been taken on locating her, our last comment on her post would probably be the 999th. While physical action has since been deployed, this is just to assure everyone that we are on it.”
“There’s so much information embedded in her ability to access or not to access her DM. So much was said in a few lines. So much more than “check your DM”
“Maybe there’s one man behind the keys but thousands are on the street to find them. We appreciate hundreds of well-meaning Nigerians furnishing us with useful information on our TL and DM. We want to assure you once again that we are on it.”
“We urge the members of the public to keep hope alive and keep assisting the Police in any way they can even as we remain on top of the situation.”
As of the time of this report, the victims’ whereabouts remain unknown, thus stirring reactions from Nigerians, especially on social media.

Share this on WhatsApp