Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveNo fewer than 270 residents of Oregun, Ikeja, on Wednesday benefited from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) free medical care through its Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD).

The News Agency of Nigeria reports that HIRD is targeted at the grassroots for medical consultation/examination to the people, eye checks, health talk, free drugs and counselling.
The inauguration by Oba Oregun, Oba Olusesan Kudoro, in company of Mr Oladotun Olakanle Chairman, Onigbongbo LCDA and NYSC Lagos Coordinator, Mrs Yetunde Baderinwa, was held at the Oba’s Palace.

 
Oba Kudoro commended the NYSC Lagos for bringing the free medicals down to the reach of the people in Oregun community, and solicited for continuity as health was paramount to survival of the people.
“We are delighted to have you NYSC members and officials in our midst and most importantly to provide us with free medical examinations, drugs and educating the people on general health care.
“It is a laudable initiative and we will like and appreciate if you can sustain this exercise, by coming from time to time with this offer; we are ready to provide the logistics,” he added.
The traditional ruler enjoined the beneficiaries to take advantage of the initiative and take proper care of their health, adhere to prescriptions on drugs given and adhere strictly to other medical advice.
Baderinwa in response, thanked Oba Kudoro for a warm welcome and creating an enabling environment for the scheme to carry out the outreach throught the volunteers.
She, however, promised that more medical outreaches would be carried out periodically to sustain healthcare among the people in the community, adding, “call us anytime, we will be willing to come”.
Olakanle applauded the State Coordinator said the Corps members for leaving an indelible mark in the community through the selfless service they have rendered to the people.
 
The Chairman also passionately appealed to the NYSC Lagos Coordinator and solicited that Corps members in the medical field should be deployed to the Local Government Primary Health Care (PHC).
“The Onigbongbo council has six wards with seven PHCs and four being functional by every standard but we need doctors and pharmacists to assist in the remaining three, we’ll take care of them.
“This is a special and passionate appeal that we are making; we are aware that a batch of Corp members presently in camp will soon pass out for primary assignment,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp