Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


When choosing a breakfast item, make sure it fits our body’s nutritional needs while also filling us up and keeping us full till lunchtime. Breakfast can be heavy or light, but I prefer to state that “morning should be a nutritional and satisfying food, whether light or heavy.” One example of a good breakfast food is egg, and I’ll use boiling egg as an example in this post.
An egg, according to Healthline, is a simple, nutritious breakfast that is also a good source of protein. Eggs are one of the greatest foods to consume first thing in the morning because of their health benefits and the variety of ways they may be prepared. Eggs can be eaten in egg-based meals, on their own (boiled eggs), or combined with other foods.
Eggs are a fantastic breakfast food because they provide a small amount of practically all of the nutrients the body need, including vitamin A, B2, B5, B6, B12, D, E, K, folate, selenium, calcium, phosphorus, and zinc.
Looking at the nutrient profile of eggs makes me want to eat them all the time; however, with these nutrients available, the body will express the consequences of eggs after intake, and who knows whether these effects are all favorable or negative? The answer to that question can be found below.
When a boiled egg is consumed first thing in the morning, it has an impact on the individual who eats it.
1. Eggs may help you lose weight.
Some people desire to lose weight, while others want to gain weight. In order to lose weight by eating eggs, one must be deliberate about it, as two actions of eggs combine to cause weight reduction.
Eggs’ propensity to assist weight reduction stems from the fact that they are protein meals, and protein takes longer to digest, keeping you fuller for longer. Additionally, those who eat eggs in the morning are more likely to eat less calories in the afternoon. Because of the two characteristics discussed above, egg has a role in weight management by promoting weight loss.
2. Eggs can aid in the prevention of eye problems.
Many people eat eggs for breakfast because they are an excellent breakfast food, and if you can develop the habit of eating an egg every day, you can protect your eyes from harm by preventing age-related macular degeneration and cataracts.
The egg’s beneficial antioxidants, lutein and zeaxanthin, are responsible for this impact. The yolk of an egg contains a lot of both antioxidants.
3. When ingested in excess, eggs can cause a rise in cholesterol levels.
Because of the nutrients, minerals, vitamins, and antioxidants found in eggs, they are a healthy food. However, eating too much of them might create health problems. Those who consume too many eggs for breakfast, lunch, or supper, for example, will observe a rise in cholesterol levels. Egg is eaten in the morning because it is a classic breakfast item.
The effect of “a surge in cholesterol levels” may be noticeable in the future if you eat too many eggs in the morning. If you eat two eggs for breakfast every day, you’ll go over your cholesterol budget, according to eatthis.com.
I’m sure you’re aware of how beneficial eggs are to those who consume them in moderation; the positive benefits are beneficial, and the negative ones described above only appear if too much is consumed.


Share this on WhatsApp