Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveEnugu Catholic Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has picked on LP’s presidential candidate as the priest begins his wide ranging prophecies on how the 2023 presidential election will shake out.
According to him, Obi can never be president.
The gods are not against him, though. But the Anambra former governor is cursed, said Mbaka.
The curse is a tragic flaw.
“A stingy man, that cannot give people his money, with this hunger ravaging the land, and you are saying he is the one you want…?” Mbaka, at a session on his Adoration Ground in Enugu, lashed out at those rooting for Obi.
“Are you people insane? Where is the Holy Spirit?”
The cleric said Atiku should be taken seriously now that he’s running again without his cursed sidekick.
“Listen, a good old man is better than a young wicked man. Peter Obi is going nowhere as far as God lives. If Igbos want a representative, it is not someone like Peter Obi,” he said.
“Unless Peter comes here to kneel, if he becomes President, he will close down this ministry. What we are doing is spiritual.”
Obi jetted out to Egypt on Tuesday, leaving his party candidate for the Ekiti guber election to sort himself amidst a battle with the ruling APC whose presidential candidate Bola Tinubu had already gone there to support his own in any way possible.
The LP presidential candidate decided to tour Egypt’s financial and energy sector for more knowledge. That expense is money well spent compared to what he has to spend supporting his grassroots candidate.
“The man has so much money, but he is ‘I, me, myself’. But that money will not be useful to him,” Mbaka added, saying he was happy to speak out again.
A viral video had earlier showed the priest apologizing for his earlier tirade against Obi. That was what provoked the fresh gust holy anger.
“No, I didn’t apologize wholeheartedly. It was out of duress. I had to obey my bishop…. I did it because I am a Catholic priest. My bishop said, do it, my own is ‘Yes my Lord’.”
A lot happened after the apology, according to Mbaka. The priest was almost saying it was his divine advice that made Atiku and Obi went their separate ways, not so much as ambition or an Igbo agenda.
“I called Atiku after that apology—he was in Dubai. I told him that there is a revelation on your presidential election; that you are going to be the President of Nigeria on one condition: that Peter Obi is not going to be your running mate,” the priest said.
“Peter Obi has incurred a curse to himself, which means that he is carrying a curse; if you want to be President, change him.
Mbaka also insisted he didn’t say Obi is a bad man—that he only called him a stingy man.
Recalling his relationship with Obi, Mbaka said he played a role in stabilizing him when they wanted to boot Obi out of government in Anambra then, all the night meetings, with other clerics.
But Obi hasn’t paid back.
“If you like Peter Obi, tell him to come and ask for forgiveness. Let him come and redo what he did. There is an altar of God he blasphemed; he defiled an altar of God, the Holy Spirit.”
Share this on WhatsApp