Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has called on Christian leaders of Nigeria to introduce armed and well trained vigilantes to secure their members during worship rather than continue to be wasted by Islamic terrorists.
The group also called on the leader of Catholics Worldwide, Pope Francis to speak out against the genocides going on against Christians in Nigeria and stop being politically correct.
HURIWA spoke against the backdrop of the report emerging that suspected terrorists are said to have blown up St Francis Catholic Church in Owo, the headquarters of Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State and also shot sporadically at Worshippers, killing over 50 persons.
READ ALSO: Buhari squandering taxpayers’ money on meaningless foreign trips- HURIWA
“HURIWA blames the United Nations Secretary General Mr. Antonio Gutterres who recently visited Nigeria and endorsed the rehabilitation and reintegration of terrorists.  We hold all these persons, especially the UN, responsible for the continuous killings of Christians by Islamic extremists who allegedly get supplies of weapons from their supporters inside of the Nigerian Government.”
According to the National Coordinator of the group, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, Christian leaders have failed to provide good leadership which also involves taking verifiable steps to put in place some measures aimed at securing the lives of the members and the property of the Churches.
HURIWA also lamented that Christians don’t take matters of their personal security and the corporate security of the Churches as top priorities even when the times are ominous.
“It is unfortunate that Churches don’t spend qualitative budgets to provide security for their members but rely heavily on the poorly trained and poorly motivated police force that sends only a person with a dysfunctional gun per Church even in Abuja.
“This Present administration is complicit in all of these terrorist attacks because despite the declaration of Fulani terrorists in Kaduna forests as terrorists by the Federal High Court Abuja, the government and the likes of Sheikh Ahmed Gumi are making case for terrorists and the Federal Government has not gone after them due to favouritism and selfish religious agenda if seeking to destroy Christianity in Nigeria”.



Share this on WhatsApp