Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAPC presidential candidate Bola Tinubu might have kept the choice of his vice president close to his chest, his aide has revealed how the selection will happen.
It will turn out a big gamble.
No fewer than11 northern governors met with Tinubu on Thursday, in preparation for the campaign and other things that have to be in place.
The vice president’s choice was part of the deliberation.
On Wednesday, Bayo Onanuga, spokesman of Tinubu Campaign Organisation, told Trust TV that the slot has been ceded to the governors.
“When Tinubu met the Progressive governors at their forum, he told them ‘you are going to be the people who will pick my running mate’,” Onanuga said.
If that means one of the northern governors will step up as V.P, then those southwesterners clamouring for a Muslim-Christian ticket will have to worry more.
There’s no Christian among the APC northern governors.
The only Chrstian northerner who featured prominently in Tinubu’s years-long preparation for the APC ticket is Lawal Babachir.
And the Tinubu ally is a former SGF.
He too has warned against a Muslim-Muslim ticket.
When Channels TV asked him what was in Tinubu’s victory for him while voting was on-going June 8, Babachir, who many believe will be Tinubu’s choice for V.P., denied having interest.
“I have never applied for any job in my life,” he said, citing his advancing age, and what he will like to spend the remaining years of his life.
The possibility of a Muslim-Muslim ticket was part of the campaign strategy of some of his rivals during the primary.
The APC headed off this kind of pairing in 2014 when Tinubu wanted to be Buhari’s running mate. Former Sen. President Bukola Saraki, then in the APC, claimed he frustrated the move.
Tinubu eventually put forward  V.P Yemi Osinbajo as the bargaining chip. Osinbajo has denied owing  him for that favour, though.
But in case it happens in this time around, the Tinubu all-Muslim presidency will not be the first of such experience in Nigeria.
In 1993, the late MKO chose a northern Muslim, Babagana Kingibe, as running mate.
And both won the 1993 presidential election which the military ruler Ibarhim Babangida annulled.
Share this on WhatsApp