Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGov. Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State, on Wednesday, described the victory of Bola Tinubu in the just concluded APC presidential primary as an expression of cohesion and national unity.
Yahaya in a congralatory message by Ismail Misili, Director-General, Press Affairs, Government House, said Tinubu’s emergence as the party’s flagbearer was a good omen to the country.
“The overwhelming victory of Tinubu at the just-concluded APC presidential primary is a good omen and an expression of national unity of purpose.
“The victory is a manifestation of his years of personal commitment, sacrifice, tenancy, political experience and service to the nation.
“As an enigmatic leader and strong pillar with immense influence, Tinubu, the APC flagbearer has the capacity to win the general election in 2023 with resounding victory,” he said.
The governor expressed optimism that when eventually elected as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Tinubu would bring to bear his wealth of experience to build on the successes of the Buhari-led administration in all facets of human endeavour.
He said Tinubu has proven ability and capability to lead the nation, having governed Lagos State with a magic wand.
Yahaya applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for providing leadership and guidance that led to the enthronement of a transparent internal democratic process which resulted in the successful conduct of the primary.
He lauded the leadership of the party for the conduct of free, fair, peaceful and transparent presidential primary election.
Yahaya also commended his colleagues for supporting power shift to the south in the spirit of equity, fairness and bond of brotherhood, adding that the gesture would further strengthen the party and engender cohesion in the country.
According to him, members of the party have shown candour and character in the quality of leadership, maturity and commitment displayed by both delegates and aspirants throughout the process.
Share this on WhatsApp