Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





The names of presidential aspirants recommended by the John Odigie-Oyegun Presidential Screening Committee has emerged.

On Friday, the committee submitted the results of the screening exercise to the National Chairman of the Party, Abdullahi Adamu.

Briefing newsmen on the outcome of the exercise, Oyegun revealed that out of 23 aspirants, the 13 were ‘shortlisted’ for the primaries.

Presidential sources reveal that contrary to widespread reports that 10 aspirants were ‘disqualified’, all aspirants were cleared and qualified but the committee recommended a ‘safe list’ of 13 names.

The names of the aspirants on the safe-list include;

Bola Ahmed Tinubu

Yemi Osinbajo

Rotimi Amaechi

Ahmed Lawan

Yahaya Bello

Kayode Fayemi

Emeka Nwajiuba

Ogbonnaya Onu

Ibikunle Amosun

David Umahi

Abubakar Badaru

Senator Godswill Akpabio

Tein Jack Rich

Those not included in the list are;

Rochas Okorocha

Tunde Bakare

Ben Ayade

Sani Yerima

Ken Nnamani

Ikeobasi Mokelu

Dimeji Bankole

Felix Nicholas

Robert Borrofice

Uju Ken Ohanenye

Furthermore, it was gathered that the only aspirant that rejected the option of supporting a Consensus Candidate for the party should it arise was Bola Tinubu.

The Lagos politician said he would only accept consensus if he was the beneficiary.

Speaking on the criteria for shortlisting the 13 candidates, Oyegun disclosed that the list would have been shorter but the committee decided to allow the party choose their preferred candidate.

He said; “First, we had 23 member aspirants that we interacted with. And my first comment is that we were very occupant. Those were 23 that presented themselves. We had a lot of others, prominent Nigerians both within and outside the country that had applied but for whatever reason, could not proceed with their applications.”

“The second point I want to make is that we were surprised at the active participation of the youthful members of the party. Some of them surprised us with what they have accomplished in life, their understanding of the situation in this country and why they want to have the privilege of governing this country.”

“Aside from the basic background, experience and understanding of the Nigerian situation, the ideas as to how issues, difficulties and problems can be addressed were key factors that were considered.”

The APC is scheduled to hold its Presidential Primaries on Monday, 6th of May.





Share this on WhatsApp