Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveJohn and Jane (not real names) sauntered out in their birthday suits, and created a scene (they didn’t give a damn) around the Victoria Garden City last Saturday night.
Their bodies and minds, then made one, no longer attuned to the vanities that consume mortals here. They desired an experience that would transform them in three days.
As neighbours later perceived, the heavenly quest would lead to a pact. They both would kill themselves and rise the third day, on Monday, afresh. Redeemed.
Nothing to hide. The lookers could see that the couple’s present, earthly vessels were experiencing corruption, minds addled, and their legs went wherever the owners never chose.
The neighbours wouldn’t understand initially.
“They are walking inside VGC, I kid you not. This is not a joke,” a voice said in a video posted on Silverbird TV Instagram that night.
The security men guarding the estate quickly mobilized. They corralled the naked couple back to their apartment at Close 63.
By then, a small crowd already gathered at the door to the couple’s holy of holies.
Don’t open the door.
If you do, you’ll be cursed
But the sacred writ on the door didn’t do much. The crowd swung the frame open.
Another scene:  Jane and John, still in the state of nature, lay in bed, ascending cloud 9. They spoke as led by the spirit.
“We will die now and rise up three days later.”
Blood flowed from their wrists, sprinkled on the bedsheet.
Those nosey neighbours kept screaming, ordering the two to get off the bed, and threatening to call in police. While the melee was going on, some neighbors pottered around the sanctum—for God’s gift, roaches, or any of such.
They got a haul.
But nice neighbours they were. They refused to call in NDLEA or cops.
Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos police command spokesman, said he didn’t hear about it. Obviously the neighbours sent for medics who sedated the junkies. Chairman, VGC, Gihan Mbelu, then took them to hospital later.
They have since resurrected.
Share this on WhatsApp