Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
It is believed that Bundesliga giants Bayern Munich who are set to lose the services of their goal machine Robert Lewandowski after he confirmed he wanted to leave Allianz Arena are directing their attention to Stamford Bridge for a possible alternative replacement for their prolific striker.
Bayern are expected to secure the services of Liverpool want-away striker Sadio Mane, but the Bundesliga champions are believed to have eyes on Chelsea striker Romelu Lukaku as alternative to Mane to replace Lewandowski.
Similarly, Barcelona who are poised to bring Lewandowski to Camp Nou are also believed to be lining up the securement of Romelu Lukaku as alternative for the Polish legend.
Lewandowski scored 50 goals in 46 games for Bayern last season and 344 goals in 375 appearances during his eight-year stay at the German club.
But the 33-year-old confirmed earlier in the week that he was looking for a new challenge this summer, saying his ‘story is over’ at Bayern Munich.
Given Lewandowski’s stance, Barcelona are hopeful to bring him to Camp Nou in the weeks ahead, but Chelsea’s Lukaku has emerged as a back-up option.
National Daily gathered from the report by Spanish outlet Mundo Deportivo that Barcelona will look to move for want-away striker Lukaku if a deal for Lewandowski fails to materialise.
Lukaku, who only returned to Chelsea last summer, is believed to be keen on leaving Stamford Bridge after a disappointing season where he scored just eight Premier League goals.
National Daily understands that Lukaku would ideally like to return to Inter Milan but it remains to be seen whether the Italians are able to secure his signature, even if the Belgian takes a pay cut.
From the foregoing, it is obvious that Lukaku is not short of options this summer as reports in Spain say Bayern Munich are also looking at Lukaku as a replacement for Lewandowski if they fail to sign Mane from Liverpool.
Meanwhile, it has been reported that Mane has already agreed a deal with Bayern, but the clubs still need to reach an agreement for him.
 
Share this on WhatsApp