Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFears and tensions are ramping up as Rivers’ PDP stalwarts and supporters prepare to move into the APC or the LP in expression of their grievance over the manner the PDP relegated Rivers Gov. Nyesom Wike and robbed him of the V.P slot.
The fears are about the state ruling party refusing to help its presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar who ditched Wike for Delta Gov Ifeanyi Okowa.
The tensions, however, are about the fragmented APC in the state whose factions, including that of former Minister Rotimi Amaechi, won’t be comfortable with the defection of Wike—in case it happens.
Wike and Amaechi, both first runners-up in their respective parties during the presidential primaries, are sworn enemies.
But in politics, there is nothing permanent except personal interest.
Ebonyi Gov Dave Umahi was the first to make the move, and visited his counterpart to persuade him to defect to the APC, though Wike has sworn never to join the ruling party.
But at least his followers, still angry, don’t mind making the move to punish the PDP.
So the fragmented APC in the state is now coming together to work as one, and absorb the on-coming hordes of PDP members. Still, the APC leaders have their reservations about Wike .
Emeka Beke, the Rivers State APC chairman, has confirmed the party’s effort in this direction , and he didn’t pretend Wike is now a good guy as he’s about to jump in..
According to him in a recent interview, the state APC leadership will ensure their presidential candidate Bola Tinubu wins the whole of the south-south, and Rivers in particular.
“What we are doing now is that we are going around the wards, units and everywhere to campaign and make our people understand the importance of good governance in the state,” he said.
Among the steps the party has taken so far is mobilizing Rivers people to get their PVC.
“Then make them understand why they need to change from the present PDP government to the APC-led administration in the state come 2023 because Governor Nyesom Wike has failed Rivers people.”
Share this on WhatsApp