The World Health Organization in Geneva has faced criticism from President Trump over its handling of the pandemic.
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has been exposed in a new CHD Films documentary, “Infertility: A Diabolical Agenda,” in a program that resulted in the sterilization of African women without their knowledge or consent.
The documentary, “Infertility: A Diabolical Agenda,” was a production of award-winning filmmaker, Dr. Andy Wakefield, in collaboration with executive producer Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., chairman of Children’s Health Defense (CHD), and CHD Films.
A hidden agenda of the World Health Organization (WHO) population control experiment under the guise of a vaccination program which led to the sterilization of women in Africa without their knowledge or consent was revealed in the documentary.
The director of the film, Dr. Andy Wakefield, had declared: “It is with timely irony that the World Health Organization reveals its true colors as it makes a desperate grab for control of global health.
“This story is a true ‘WHO’ dunnit.”
“Infertility: A Diabolical Agenda” pulls back the curtain to reveal the truth behind WHO’s nefarious collaboration with the Kenyan government in which an experimental tetanus vaccination — later found to be laced with the pregnancy hormone βhCG (human chronic gonadotropin) — was given to millions of unknowing African women of childbearing age in the 1990s and early 2000s. “Consequently, their right to carry children was stolen.
Wakefield had chronicled the tragic story to bring shocking new evidence to light. Late Dr. Stephen Karanja had warned in the film: “When they’re through with Africa, they’re coming for you.”
Dr. Brian Hooker, CHD Chief Science Director, also asserted, “The truths exposed in this film cast a long shadow from a tetanus trial in Africa to the symptoms of infertility that are happening all over the world, including reports after the Gardasil vaccine and the COVID-19.”
Mary Holland, CHD president and general counsel and author of “The HPV Vaccine on Trial: Seeking Justice for a Generation betrayed,” had stated: “This film documents evidence that strongly supports the idea that the WHO was conducting an experiment on women of childbearing age to make them infertile without informed consent.”
She cited that “The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, signed by most countries of the world, specifies that enforced sterilization is a war crime. This film highlights that rendering human beings infertile without their consent, as was done to the most vulnerable people during the eugenics era in the U.S., is truly diabolical.
“The film asks whether the global community should vastly empower the WHO to regulate and enforce global health policy.”
Experts are discussing the rise in infertility rates and how other vaccines, including the COVID-19 shot, are linked to infertility.
Kennedy had declared:  “An abiding principle of ethical medical practice is that every patient has the right to fully informed, voluntary consent.
“We expose the WHO’s gross violation of this principle in its surreptitious campaign to prevent and abort pregnancies in millions of unsuspecting African women. WHO led these women to believe that they were part of a public health program to protect their newborn babies. This is a timely message that the WHO is not fit, on any level, to dictate global health policy.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp