Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio and Governor of Ebonyi, David Umahi have picked the All Progressives Congress Senate tickets for their various senatorial zones.
While Akpabio emerged the APC candidate for Akwa Ibom North-West senatorial seat ahead of the 2023 general elections, Umahi emerged the winner of the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) rescheduled senatorial primary election for Ebonyi South.
He emerged victorious after getting 478 votes at the Godswill Akpabio Empowerment Centre in the Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area, where the re-run primary was held.
Other aspirants were Sir Joseph Akpan, DIG Ekpo Udom, and Obong Emem Ekperikpe Ekpo.
READ ALSO: Why Senator Akpabio will get APC presidential ticket – NPF
Ekpo, however, stepped down for Akpabio and called on the delegates loyal to him to vote for the former Akwa Ibom State governor, saying, “I plead with all my delegates to identify with our father, and I return all the delegates to vote for him.
“I don’t think we should do anything to undermine the person God has given to us as a leader. The person is Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio. I call all my delegates once again to support him. With that, I have withdrawn my aspiration to the Senatorial seat,” Ekpo said.
Akpabio had contested for the presidential ticket of the APC at the party’s National Convention in Abuja this week but later announced that he was stepping down for the eventual winner, Bola Tinubu.
Akpabio was one of the ministers who had to resign from the cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari for seeking elective offices.
Similarly, Umahi who also contested for the presidential ticket of the APC emerged the winner of the party’s rescheduled senatorial primary election for Ebonyi South.
His younger brother, Chief Austin Umahi, had emerged as the winner of the election two weeks ago.
The rescheduled Ebonyi South APC Senatorial primary election was held at Afikpo North Local Government Council, with Governor Umahi clinching the party’s ticket.




Share this on WhatsApp