Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






The Nigerian social media space has been buzzing since yesterday with reactions to the claim of the leader of All Progressives Congress Bola Tinubu that he made President Muhammadu Buhari win election in 2015.
Speaking on Thursday while addressing the Ogun State APC delegates at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta, Tinubu said Buhari had vowed not to contest again after losing the presidential elections in 2003, 2007, and 2011.
The former Governor of Lagos State stated that he went to Katsina to persuade Buhari to contest the 2015 election, adding that he overwhelmingly supported him as well.
He also stated that he personally nominated Yemi Osinbajo as the Vice President of Buhari in 2015, adding that without him, Dapo Abiodun would not have been elected governor of Ogun State in 2019.
Since the video appeared on the internet yesterday, Nigerians have been reacting to it on Twitter and other social media platforms. See some of their reactions below:

Actually,Jagaban has played a leading role in the emergence and victory of PMB in 2015;but politics doesn’t always respect or appreciate history.
— Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) June 2, 2022

That video just confirmed what we’ve always known about Tinubu’s presidential bid; it’s about him and his power lust. It has nothing to do with Nigeria’s progress.
That’s why all he has to say is “emi lol kan”. “It’s my turn”.
— FOLA FOLAYAN (@TheFavoredWoman) June 2, 2022

Says he struck a deal with Buhari to get him elected in exchange for special consideration to the Yoruba.
Buhari then sent the military to perform a civilian massacre in the middle of the biggest city in Yorubaland, and nothing happened.
Tinubu is good at politics
— David Hundeyin (@DavidHundeyin) June 3, 2022

APC was in a Cold War before the Tinubu Abeokuta declaration. Now, they have a full blown civil war to manage.
— JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) June 2, 2022

Crazy how Bola Tinubu genuinely believes he should be rewarded with the Presidency for helping usher in the worst President in the history of Nigeria…
Aso Rock is not a “thank you” gift or a souvenir. He should keep crying. His tears will make my weekend
— Ugwunna Ejikem (@UgwunnaEjikem) June 3, 2022

Tinubu is Bringing the APC House Down!
APC henchmen coaxed INEC into extending the deadline for party primaries to help them strategically respond to PDP’s choice & to resolve their lingering internal schism. But APC’s schism is widening and shows no signs of abating days b4 its
— Farooq Kperogi (@farooqkperogi) June 2, 2022

Atiku, Saraki and those 7 PDP Governors who decamped in 2013 made Buhari president and not some Bola Tinubu.
If Tinubu can make anyone President, Atiku would have been President when he contested under Tinubu’s ACN. Someone tell that local champion to stop overeating himself.
— Kelvin Odanz (@MrOdanz) June 3, 2022

Tinubu’s speech in Ogun state shows that he’s becoming very impatient and bitter. Them don carry baba on handicap  #APCPrimaries
— Ayodele (@Ayodele_xx) June 2, 2022

It is a strategy. It is a message to Buhari that he wouldn’t go quietly. The president would now have to negotiate with him if they want to win election. Picking Abeokuta to deliver the message is also deliberate. Tinubu is a strategist. He knows what he is doing.
— Jamiu Julius Adèbayó (@OfficialJayjam) June 3, 2022






Share this on WhatsApp