Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


“Peter Obi in Ibadan, this generation of Nigerian youths refuse to be like their parents. This one na “soro soke”. 

These were the statements from the popular social media personality Daddy Freeze as a video of youths flooding everywhere with the posters and placards of Labour Party flag bearer Peter Obi, surfaced online.
Recall that all primaries have now been concluded and the leaders of flag bearers of each of the parties are already known. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the presidential flag bearer for APC, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for PDP, Peter Obi is for LP and so on.
The tables are now all set and all expectations seem to be very high this time around ahead of the 2023 presidential election. All preparations and major focus or talking points will henceforth be towards an event hoped to be very important in the history of Nigeria.
Why should we be hopeful of this coming election to be more captivating and special than all others? One of them is the way we have been seeing the Nigerian youths actively taking part in the campaign process both during the primary and the post-primary elections of the different political parties, recently.
Many who have been very observant will agree that the majority of Nigerian youths in the past rarely actively participated in the election campaign let alone taking part in the general election.
This time, things look different as youths have not only been campaigning to support their respective candidates for the upcoming election in 2023 but have also been displaying their readiness to vote in large numbers during the proper election.
How are we sure of this? Via all the social media, the majority of those who have been making calls and persuading people to obtain their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) are the young people.
Daddy Freeze who seems to have shared the views of the youths this time around in his further remarks to the trending post also said, “Success requires work and structure; the youths are up to the task.”


Share this on WhatsApp