Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
APC’s National Vice Chairman, North West, Dr. Salihu Lukman has warned that President Muhammadu Buhari’s pleas for permission to choose his successor will rubbish him, and pit him against Nigeria.
In a statement issued Wednesday titled “Succession and 2023 APC Presidential Candidate: Open Letter to President Muhammadu Buhari”, Lukman warned that the decision of the president might damage his reputation.
According to him, anything short of giving all the presidential aspirants a level playing field at the June 6 convention of the party would be inimical to the electoral fortune of the party.
Lukman emphasised that the temptation for leaders to choose their successors was democratically risky and very costly.
He said if in 2013/2014, Buhari submitted himself to the internal democratic process, it was important that his successor also follows the same process.
“Ordinarily, this should not be a problem. Both party members and leaders will always trust Your Excellency’s judgment. However, the big worry is whether loyal party leaders and members should just reduce themselves to being ordinary observers when very sensitive issues with very high potential to diminish and damage Your Excellency’s revered status in the country is being considered.
“Noting that the current phenomena of poor relations between predecessors and successor governors are largely a product of poorly instituted political succession arrangement in the country, which is impulsive and imposing, it will be highly risky to adopt the same succession framework as it can erode all your lifelong achievements as someone who contributes a lot to strengthen Nigerian democracy.
“Like in the case of December 10, 2014 APC National Convention, everything will be done at the June 6, 2022 APC National Convention to guarantee a level playing field for all aspiring Presidential candidates of our party. Any recommendation to the contrary will be inimical and injurious to the electoral fortunes of our great party, APC.
“Any initiative that potentially took away the rights of party members to elect candidates would potentially mobilise Nigerians against the party and rubbish Mr. President.”
He urged Buhari to act responsibly.
Share this on WhatsApp