Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


As Nigeria continues its onward march toward the 2023 general elections, prominent persons have begun wading into the ongoing debate on which region should produce the country’s next Commander in Chief.
For example, a video is currently making the rounds on social media showing the moment popular Nollywood actor and comedian, Okechukwu Anthony Onyegbule, popularly known as Okey Bakassi named all the presidential candidates he has voted for since 1993.
In the clip, the actor stated that during the 1993 elections, he voted for the late Chief MKO Abiola from the Southwest. In 1999, he claimed to have voted for Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, also from the Southwest.
Okey Bakassi went on to name the late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua (Northwest), Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan (South-South), and Atiku Abubakar (North Central), as the other candidates he supported from 2007 to 2019.
Quite interestingly, the actor ended his speech by saying that he will look to the Southeast when casting his vote in 2023, not just for the sake of balance but because the country needs a candidate that can move it forward.
As expected, Okey Bakassi’s comments have drawn a flurry of reactions from some prominent persons on social media.
Taking to his Twitter handle to share the video, former Special Adviser to the Edo State Government on Social Media, Jack Obinyan also revealed the names of the candidates he voted for since 1993.
According to the former governor’s aide, he voted for Abiola in 1993, left the country, then came back to vote for Buhari in 2015 and 2019 respectively.

With the presidential primaries now done and dusted across the nation’s political platforms, the three candidates who have been considered runners in the race for the presidency are Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (APC), and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP).
Quite interestingly, the trio represents the 3 regions that are currently embroiled in the zoning argument.
Though many Nigerians in the South have lampooned the North for not adhering to the unwritten code of power-sharing, there have been calls from various quarters in the country urging the masses to jettison the regional ideologies of leadership and focus on electing competent leaders at the polls next year.
On a personal note, when it comes to competence and leadership experience, the trio of Atiku, Tinubu, and Obi fit the bill perfectly as they all possess enviable track records in the positions they have held in the past.


Share this on WhatsApp