Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

By Kingsley Chukwuka
The candidate for the Plateau Central Senatorial District in the 2023 general elections, Amb. Golkuna Yohanna Gotom, has said the number of votes that gave him victory at the just concluded People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senatorial primaries for Plateau Central, is a clear indication that he will win at the secondary election.
Gotom said the love for the PDP as demonstrated in the five Local Government Areas of Plateau Central, is a clear indication that the people are tired of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), in the State.
Speaking with our correspondent in Jos, Wednesday, Gotom dismissed fears that his opponent from the APC will stand a chance at the secondary election, adding that the same fate will befall all APC candidates in the State and the federal due to the deceit they have fed the people with in the past seven years.
“The consequence of this is that the APC has lost focus, it became a party without a goal in mind, unable to assert or proclaim any specific principle or ideology. The economy has paid dearly for this and the political space has become turbulent and things are falling apart without any center at all.
“In the scheme of things presently, nobody is sure of anything within the APC. They only just wanted power for the sake of it,  still blaming the PDP even after about seven painful years in office”, he said.
Gotom however said with the calibre of politicians in the PDP who have over the years given the people quality governance, there is no doubt that victory is assured.
“With the emergence of the former Vice President, Alh. Atiku Abubarka as the PDP presidential candidate, and Caleb Mutfwang as the governorship candidate in the State, is a clear signal that the reign of APC is over both in the State and at the federal”, Gotom said.
He lauded a PDP stalwart and a former governor, Jonah Jang for the fatherly role played in keeping the party together over thus far, adding that the success of the party primaries in the State is owed largely to the consistent advice and choices of candidate Sen. Jang has supported.

Share this on WhatsApp