Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Campaign Organisation has described the 11 Northern All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors as worthy patriots for their decision to support power shift to the South.
Mr Bayo Onanuga, Director of Media and Communications of the campaign organisation, in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, said the governors should be celebrated by Nigerians.
He said, ”all lovers of peace, progress, equity, justice and stability of the country should celebrate and honour the Northern APC governors.”
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the 11 governors from the North had in a statement on Saturday, announced their decision to support power shift to the South after the end of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari.
The governors, while urging presidential aspirants from the region to step down from the 2023 presidential race, said, ”the decision to support power shift to the South is in the best interest of the country”.
The Northern APC governors also commended their Jigawa counterpart, Gov. Abubakar Badaru, for withdrawing from the race ahead of the party’s presidential primary election slated for June 6 to 8.
Among the governors who signed the communique at the end of the meeting where the decision was taken, are Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State, Sani Bello, Niger; Abdullahi Sule, Nasarawa and Prof. Umara Zulum, Borno.
Others are Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau, Dr Umar Ganduje, Kano State; Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi and former Governor of Sokoto State, Sen. Aliyu Wamakko; Gov. Nasir El-Rufai, Kaduna State; Muhammad Yahaya, Gombe state, and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara.
Onanuga expressed the satisfaction of Tinubu Campaign Organisation with the decision of the governors, whom he said, ”put national interest above regional interest”.
Onanuga said that the decision of the governors, ”had removed all the anxieties, uncertainties and conspiracy theories hovering around the party’s presidential nomination process”.
He particularly commended Gov. Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa, for promptly complying with the position of the region.
“We enjoin other aspirants such as the President of the Senate, Sen. Ahmad Lawan, Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi and former Zamfara Gov, Sani Yerima, to also bow out of the race.
“History will be kind to them all,” Onanuga said.
Onanuga added, ”the APC could now go into its national convention, which would be open to only presidential
Share this on WhatsApp