Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA Lagos cosmetic clinic, Cynosure Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, has called for calm and patience while investigation continues into the death of its client, Christabel Gabriel, a Port-Harcourt-based socialite.
Dr Ogbe Omoruyi, a Consultant Plastic Surgeon at the clinic, made the call while speaking with newsmen in Lagos.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Christabel Gabriel allegedly died at the hospital after a successful liposuction surgery.
Reactions have continued to trail her demise.
Omoruyi said he had submitted himself to the Police, the Health Facility Monitoring , the Accreditation Agency and the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Services, for investigations as a law abiding citizen accused of the death of his client four days after her surgery.

He said that representatives from the agencies had already visited the facility for a thorough information gathering as expected with CCTV footages available.
“It is on a very sad note that I comment on the demise of our dear client which occurred on the May 31, 2022.
“While I will ensure that I do not reveal details of the medical information and history of our client, it has equally become necessary I respond to certain unfounded insinuations, misinformation and accusations going around, following her death.
“It is unfortunate that while the family of the deceased are grieving, some persons are going about pointing accusations at me and raising doubts on my professional qualifications with regards to the handling of my client now deceased.
“I enjoin the family of the deceased, my family and friends, as well as my professional colleagues to be patient while these investigations are being conducted. I am sure that at the end, I will be exonerated of all accusations in the matter.
“No doubt the police investigations which have since commenced are already revealing the truth as there are enough evidence, including CCTV footages and the statement of the only friend who visited my client while on admission.
“I will not want to comment further on this at this time. I trust that the Police and my professional colleagues would do a thorough job and would be discrete in their investigations which include an autopsy and a toxicology of all relevant samples.
“Medicine is science and not sensationalism, ” he said.
Omoruyi commiserated with the elderly parents, the siblings, relatives, friends and well-wishers of their late client.
“As a law abiding and patriotic citizen of this great country, Nigeria, I am also following through to exhaust all legal and professional investigation processes on this unfortunate incident.
“Once again I call for calm from all interested parties. I am sure at the end, the good Lord would vindicate me and the real cause of death of my beloved deceased patient would be clearly established,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp