Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), remains Nigeria’s strongest and biggest party despite losing the 2015 and 2019 presidential elections, but will regain its glory in the 2023 general elections, a Senatorial candidate under the platform of the PDP in Plateau State Central Zone, Amb. Golkuna Gotom, has said.
Gotom said current efforts at reforming the party are “a clear sign” the PDP is ready to bounce back to win all elective positions both at the State and national level.
Gotom stated this in Jos, Sunday, while condemning the terrorist attack at a Catholic Church in Owo Ondo State, saying that the failure of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), to protect its citizens will see to their exist in the coming elections.
“PDP will win in 2023 from the State to the national because people are tired of the senseless bloodbath almost on a daily basis, which the APC has proven to Nigerians that they have lost the will to control.
“The APC swore to an oath to protect lives and properties of its citizens but what we can see today is a breach of the oath since they took over power in 2015.
“Its been seven years of deaths, economic hardship, ASSU strikes, Kidnapping, Banditry, Insurgency and Terrorism, so tell me how Nigerians will elect them into power again?
“Yes, we lost the 2015 and 2019 presidential election but that doesn’t diminish us. Every other party still knows that PDP is a leading party.
“Losing the presidency is something temporary. We should be able to get that position back as long as we are able to get our acts together”, he said.
Gotom urged Nigerians to take the opportunity that the 2023 general election will offer them to elect PDP candidates who believe in the unity of the country and its people.
“Nigerians need somebody like me and also the PDP as the only option that can face the APC squarely in the coming elections, as the PDP is committed to give the country a new direction in which safety of life is guaranteed”, Gotom said












Share this on WhatsApp