Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Our bodies usually give us signs when there’s a need to cure certain diseases or infections affecting the body organs, particularly our kidneys. According to Healthline, some symptoms in your body are warning signals that there’s damage going on in your kidneys.
This calls for immediate medical intervention. You need to see your doctor immediately when you notice the following things in your body:
1. When you notice your muscles twitching and cramping, this can be due to the removal of a lot of magnesium and calcium from the blood. This makes the muscles twitch and cramp.
When you have muscle twitching and cramping, you need to check your kidney function immediately.
2. Whenever you have itchy skin that is generalized and persistent, you scratch your skin all the time. You need to get a medical checkup immediately. The kidneys may have been impaired. This is why you have generalized, persistent itchy skin.
3. When someone has gallbladder obstruction, the bile duct in the gallbladder is obstructed. The person will have jaundice, dark urine, and light-colored stool. This can also cause symptoms that call for immediate medical examination of your kidneys.
4. When you have a yellowish-brown tint on your skin, particularly those who have a very light complexion, you will see a yellowish-brown tint on your skin. It could be a result of gallbladder or kidney problems.
You need to conduct simple tests such as a renal function test. You go to any good lab and tell them you want to do renal function tests. They will just draw your blood, run all the tests, and tell you your result after carrying out the tests. You can also do another simple test.
It’s a urine test. It is called urinalysis. You just analyze your urine and check the specific gravity of your urine. You should also test the different solutes in your urine as well as your urea level.
It’s a kidney function test to detect your urea level. You can also check your creatinine level in the urine analysis. You check all the different things that may have leaked into your urine, whether there is glucose, ketones, protein, or blood in your urine.
All of these things will be checked out during your urine analysis. You can also do a urine culture to be able to see whether there’s any infection in your urine that you may not be aware of.
This will help you identify whether you need kidney repair. This will also give you awareness about the general things you should be doing to help protect your kidneys from breaking down.


Share this on WhatsApp