Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveMarket women and residents in Ketu/Agboyi axis, Lagos State on Friday benefitted from a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) sensitisation exercise by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI).
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the LCCI gas sensitisation, which started on May 27 is scheduled to run for five Fridays across Ikorodu, Ketu, Igando, Agbado and Lagos central.
 
The event tagged: ‘#EkoforGasforEko’ is an initiative of the LCCI Liquefied Petroleum Gas Group and Community Development Committee (CDC).
The pilot scheme, which took off at Sabo market, Ikorodu, featured the distribution of 15 cylinders and industrial burners to participants.
Several cylinders and gas burners were also distributed at the LPG sensitisation programme, which took place in ketu/agboyi axis.
Dr Chinyere Almona, Director-General, LCCI, noted that continuous use of dirty fuels could lead to premature deaths, increased childhood and adult illnesses, leading to an overall strain on the healthcare system.
Almona added that the smoke pollution emanating from burning kerosene, firewood and other biomass was damaging to the environment.
“For these reasons, and many others, we are here today to ensure that our women and everyone else alike understand the implications of burning these harmful biomass on the body and the environment.
“We implore everyone present to take the message home to others to educate them on the need to use healthier energy options during cooking.
“We on our part also plan to take this message to other parts of Lagos in line with the LCCI advocacy mandate and the SDG 7 goals on access to reliable, sustainable and modern energy,” she said.
Responding, Alhaja Shakirat Balogun, Iya oloja General, Agboyi/ketu market, lauded the initiative, and pledged her support at ensuring that the efforts of the LCCI were not futile.
She added that food vendors operating across the markets in the axis would begin to use healthier cooking energy options to protect their health and visitors to the markets.
She appealed for other initiatives such as this to generate better results to engender a better Lagos.
NAN also reports that some beneficiaries include: Mrs Jacinda Abah, Mrs Uzoigwe Augustina, and Mrs Queen Adeyemi.
Also present at the exercise were Alhaja Sidikat Badiru, Iya Oloja, Ifelodun market, Ketu, Chief R.O Ajayi, CDC chairman, Agboyi Ketu, and Alhaji A.A Amusat, CDC Chairman, Lagos Chapter.
Share this on WhatsApp