Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 






Nigerian Entertainers like Wizkid, Davido, Don Jazzy, Simi and others have taken to social media to respond to the recent attack on a catholic church in Owo Ondo state.
On Sunday, June 5, 2022, an attack led by unknown gunmen in in a catholic church in Owo Ondo state led to the death of many.
Reacting to the incident, Davido had shared a tweet which stated:

Jesus take control …. Pray for Nigeria Rip to all the lost souls  #Prayforondo
— Davido (@davido) June 5, 2022
Falz shared two posts on his Twitter feed which stated:
Wizkid had taken to his Instagram story where he shared a heartbroken emoji with the Nigerian flag right in front of it.
Don Jazzy has shared an emotional and lengthy message to the families of the lives lost in the Owo Ondo attack.
His message read:

My heart goes out to the relatives and friends of victims of the gruesome killings in Owo, Ondo state today. This is a crime against humanity which shouldn’t be tolerated in any civil society. To paraphrase Senator Adeyeye’s words in the red chamber a few years ago:
— ITS DON JAZZY AGAIN.  (@DONJAZZY) June 5, 2022

be back amongst talking points as the general elections approach. Despite the political ramifications of this as noted by critics, I think the safety of the Nigerian people should be given the utmost priority. Let’s all work together for a Nigeria that’s safe for all.
— ITS DON JAZZY AGAIN.  (@DONJAZZY) June 5, 2022
Perruzi wrote;

… And My People Keep Dying. 
— The Peruzzi (@Peruzzi) June 5, 2022
Multi-talented Vocalist, Cohbams Asuquo took to Twitter to write;

This govt has failed us. From Kaduna to Owo the most we’ve received has been condemnation. Our lives ought to mean more to any govt. I hope we’ve learned our lesson. I hope we’ll do better next year. My heart goes out to the bereaved. We are the bereaved. All of us. #owomassacre
— Cobhams Asuquo (@cobhamsasuquo) June 5, 2022
Here are other reactions from celebrities;

Omo 
— Yxng Alhaji  (@fineboybella) June 5, 2022

Heart wrenching.. 
— M.I Abaga (@MI_Abaga) June 5, 2022

sad and tired. when does it end? may God comfort the families of those lost and the people of Ondo state. 
— Fireboy DML (@fireboydml) June 5, 2022

Owo massacre so sadddd 
— nairamarley (@officialnairam1) June 5, 2022

 it shouldn’t be this way in my State ! Or any other state! Or any Country!!
—  yemialade (@yemialadee) June 5, 2022

 Pray for Nigeria
— Tekno (@alhajitekno) June 5, 2022

Can’t even find the words #Ondo
— WurlD (@thisisWurlD) June 5, 2022

How, Where, Who, When, What do we do, who do we hold accountable for our security and safety.  I just landed and i see this ….I’m so heart broken, this is my state. OH GOD PLEASE  #OwoMassacre
—  yemialade (@yemialadee) June 5, 2022

I keep typing and deleting the things I’m feeling, because who cares how I’m feeling when people actually lost their loved ones. Their parents. Their children. Slight panic attack.
— Simi (@SympLySimi) June 5, 2022

I don’t even know how to be angry anymore. Just heavy.
— Simi (@SympLySimi) June 5, 2022

Merciful God, PLEASE comfort and protect your people in pain 
— Cuppy (@cuppymusic) June 5, 2022

Omg in Ondo? This is 
— REEKADO BANKS (@ReekadoBanks) June 5, 2022

As it stands, 2023 is looking like our last chance to get it right as a Nation. I hope we all vote for a better future. I really do.
— Tio Tequila (@adekunleGOLD) June 5, 2022






Share this on WhatsApp