Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The football fans the Emirates stadium will be ecstatic following Bukayo Saka’s latest transfer statement amidst rumoured interest from Premier League champions Manchester City and runners-up Liverpool.
National Daily gathered that the 20-year-old England international has teased that he is staying at Arsenal next season to the delight of the fans at the Emirates.
It has been recently reported that the top two Premier League clubs are preparing to make a move for the England star who is entering the final two years of his Gunners contract.
The two Premier League giants are optimistic that an offer of a significant pay rise from his £30,000-a-week salary, and the chance to play Champions League football will be enough to lure Saka away from his boyhood club.
National Daily however learnt that the 20-year-old has shown no previous desire to leave Arsenal and a recent video message from Saka seems to suggest that he will be playing his football at the Emirates next season.
In a video posted on the club’s Twitter account, Saka appeared alongside Arsenal Women’s Player of the Season Beth Mead, where they thanked fans for their support.
‘Hello Arsenal fans, I just wanted to say thank you for voting me as your player of the season again,’ he said.
‘It’s a real honour to win this trophy and I really feel all your love and support.
‘See you next season.’
That last line has many speculating that Saka will be sticking around for now, which will be a relief to Gunners fans after the forward scored 11 and assisted seven in his best campaign in red and white so far.
It was also reported on Wednesday that Arsenal are confident that their star man will extend his stay with the club which should allow them to fend off any interest from rival sides.
Mikel Arteta and co. will begin contract negotiations with Saka once he returns from international duty and are set to offer him a new long-term deal that would more than quadruple his current wages to £125,000-a-week.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp