Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePresident Muhammadu Buhari in the course of the week under review met behind closed door with Gov. Hope Uzodinma of Imo, who was in the State House to update him on socio-economic and security developments in the state.
Uzodinma, who briefed State House correspondents at the end of the meeting, disclosed that the president would soon visit Imo to inaugurate some developmental projects, including network of roads executed by the State Government.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Nigerian leader had earlier on Sunday addressed the nation as part of activities to commemorate this year’s Democracy Day.
In the broadcast, Buhari charged Nigerians never to forget the sacrifices of the heroes of Nigeria’s democracy during 1993 electoral process.
The president reassured Nigerians that he would ensure a free, fair and transparent electoral process in the country.
He, however, urged political parties candidates to continue running issue-focused campaigns and to treat opponents with dignity, saying politics should never be seen as ”do-or-die” affair.
On July 15, the president presided over the meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
The council approved N90.8 billion for the rehabilitation of Kashimbila-Takum-Chanchangi road in Taraba and procurement equipment for some airports in the country.
NAN reports that N66.9 billion of the amount was approved for the construction Kashimbila-Takum-Chanchangi road in Taraba, while the remaining N23.9 billion was approved for the procurement of equipment for the airports.
It also approved N964 million for the provision of a satellite-based education system equipment in three primary schools in each of the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
The president also met behind closed door with Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi on Wednesday in the State House, Abuja.
The governor, who also addressed State House correspondents after the meeting, appealed to Nigerians to always promote issues that would enhance peace and unity, and not allow primordial sentiments to continue to cause divisions.
Buhari was also in Wudil, Kano State, for the Passing-Out-Parade of the Regular Course 4/2016 Cadets of the Nigeria Police Academy, Wudil, on Thursday.
Speaking at the event, the president maintained that the three priorities of his administration; security, economy and corruption, had received significant attention with measurable results.
He said this followed his administration’s vision of making Nigeria more peaceful, prosperous and reliable, among nations.
Buhari noted that policies and actions of the government made impact on the tripod vision, in spite of challenges, assuring that more would still be done to safeguard lives and property, enhance livelihood and ensure probity.
On June 17, the president participated in a virtual meeting, hosted by President Joe Biden of the United States, on Major Economies Forum (MEF) on Energy and Climate Change.
At the forum, Buhari restated Nigeria’s commitment for a safer and healthier global climate, listing the country’s updated Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) to include elimination of kerosene lighting by 2030.
He listed other measures to include increase in use of buses for public transport and reduction in burning of crop residues.
He said that an updated NDC to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change had been submitted to replace the interim contribution of May 27, 2021.
The presidential engagements of the week ended with a letter from the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who described Buhari as a “true leader, brother and friend”.
In the letter he personally signed, the presidential candidate remarked that Buhari had demonstrated a “sense of purpose, composure and maturity” in the weeks leading to the Special Convention of the party.
Tinubu expressed gratitude for the president’s congratulatory letter to him, adding that while all the contestants expected Buhari to “choose” his successor, he simply allowed a level playing field.
The letter, titled ”Deep Appreciation”, Tinubu congratulated the president for the successful conclusion of the Convention and assured him of an issue focused campaign leading to the 2023 general elections.
Share this on WhatsApp