Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Governor Yahaya Bello may be rejecting the outcome of the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) where Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was elected APC presidential candidate for the 2023 elections. The Kogi State governor protested that the APC presidential primary was manipulated by party leaders.
The Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation, on behalf of the governor, raised an alarm APC leaders manipulated the processes at the national convention towards the result.
The spokesperson for Governor Yahaya Bello’s campaign organisation, Yemi Kolapo, declared that “even though the APC’s presidential election was peaceful, it was compromised.”
Kolapo had declared at the end of the convention in Abuja: “The All Progressives Congress’ presidential primary elections have come and gone. The process was largely peaceful but highly compromised.”
Kolapo asserted that Governor Bello was leader for the oppressed. He said that Bello fought till the end for the interest of the masses, not minding the process and should be celebrated by the youths.
Kolapo berated APC leaders on the mode of the primary election, saying it was a process where the highest bidder of political parties bought delegates.
According to Kolapo: “This is, however, not new in a country where democracy is defined as the government of the oppressors by the oppressors and for the oppressors.
“It is sad to note that those who should know and who many progressives had thought of as leaders with integrity are the ones working against the people they were selected to represent for egocentric reasons.
“A mode of primaries whereby delegates who have largely been pocketed by their paymasters and who defer to the highest bidder are made to choose flagbearers of a political party is as warped as the process itself.
“It is obvious that in a bid to prove that he is not one of them, enemies of this project, Nigeria, went beyond speaking with delegates and oiling their palms to ensure that votes that did not represent Yahaya Bello’s popularity were counted against his name.
“But they have unwittingly made him the hero of the moment. We do not have to talk much but to pray that God Himself would deliver Nigerians from the hands of enemies of democracy.”
Share this on WhatsApp