Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

 
It is the immune system’s job to protect your body against disease. You may start getting sick more frequently if you have a weakened immune system. The immune system of the body might weaken for a variety of causes.
1. Lack of Sleep
Sleep deprivation has been linked to an increased risk of infection by viruses and bacteria. Additionally, your recovery time may be prolonged. This is because your body is unable to produce as many antibodies, which are immune system cells and proteins that help fight infection. Only while you’re sleeping does your body release immune-boosting cytokines, which are proteins.
2. Anxiety
Worry and anxiety aren’t the best weapons against germs. Even for a short period of time, worrying about something can impair your immune system. The effects of chronic stress are even more severe, making it more difficult to fight off viruses like the flu, herpes, shingles, and other contagious diseases.. If you can’t shake your anxiety or if it interferes with your daily routine, see your doctor.
3. Low Vitamin D
You may already be aware of its importance in maintaining healthy bones and red blood cells. Vitamin D, on the other hand, boosts your body’s defenses. Eating eggs, salmon, and fortified milk and cereal are good sources of choline. In addition to the power of the sun, A few minutes of sun exposure on your hands, face, and arms 2-3 times a week in the summer is generally sufficient. The amount you require may increase in the winter.
4. Too Few Fruits and Veggies
In order to fight against infections, your body needs more white blood cells. Zinc, beta-carotene, beta-carotene, vitamins A, C, and E, and other essential minerals can be found in fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts, and seeds. Fiber, which is included in plant-based foods, can assist lower your body fat percentage, which can improve your immune system’s performance.
5. Marijuana
Smoke from marijuana can irritate the lungs. Regular users may experience breathing issues similar to those associated with smoking nicotine cigarettes. There is an increased risk of developing lung infections as a result of this.
6. High-Fat Diet
Germ-fighting white blood cells can be hampered by some oils. Over time, a high-fat diet can disrupt the balance of microbes in the gut that aid in the body’s ability to fight infection. Find dairy products with no added sugar and lean protein sources like seafood, poultry or beef with any visible fat removed. The flu and other diseases, such as pneumonia, tend to be more common in obese people.
7. Too Little Time Outdoors
T-cells, a kind of immune cell, may be energized by sunlight and used to combat illness. But there are other advantages to spending time outside. In the woods, a variety of plants produce phytoncides and other compounds that appear to enhance your immune system.


Share this on WhatsApp