Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


A veteran journalist with the TVCnews, Babajide Kolade-Otitoju has asked Sheikh Gumi to please negotiate the release of other kidnapped victims of the Kaduna train attack. Babajide Kolade-Otitoju said this while on Journalist Hangout on TVCnews. He said,
“… The MD of the Bank of Agriculture was said to have been released because of the holy month of Ramadan. He was released because of his age and everything turned out to be a silly claim by the people. I have a friend whose mother is about 90 Something years. Everybody can notice the extent of the powers of these people against our armed forces, our security operatives if they kept these guys in custody in captivity for 74 days. And we have no means by which we can get hold of them.
“They make videos. When they liked, they will shoot videos delivered of a baby while in custody to give us the feeling that they are humane people, that they are not the animals that they are. They then decided to snap pictures of the woman who had just been delivered. They brought the midwife to deliver the baby. Nice people don’t kidnap other people. Nice people don’t humiliate other people. Nice people don’t kill other people by storming the train, they killed many people.
“They kill soldiers who are coming to help. You know the initial story we had was that people are rescued. People are not rescued. The soldiers who are coming to do that came on that fire. You know the first time we got some information about these guys and what they wanted. It was through Gumi and Tukur Mamu, his media consultant, who is the owner of desert reporters. Gumi has played his role.
“At least to secure the release of 11 persons, we just have to encourage him to push harder and ensure that the rest are released and push harder to help us talk to these people. We don’t need this kind of behavior. Nigeria’s struggling and the government are failing. Nigerians are struggling to get by to survive despite the odds stacked against them. So they shouldn’t make it even more difficult for those who are struggling. If they have issued the government they should find a way to address it… ”
Watch the video here.


Share this on WhatsApp