Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

By Kingsley Chukwuka

Ambassador Yohnna Margif has clinched the Labour Party LP ticket to run for Governorship seat of  Plateau State in the 2023 general elections.

It would be recalled that Chief Margif who is the Wazirin Mushere was the Member of the APC and had purchased the APC governorship nomination, but later defeated to Labour Party while citing imposition of Candidate.

At the primary election held at Renat Hotel Jos the 85 delegates, five each from the 17 LGC of the State  unanimously affirmed Margif as the candidate in the presence of INEC officials, security personnel, Media and supporters of the party.

National Chairman of the Labour Party Comrade Barr. Julius Abure who conducted the Primary election said Labour Party is the party that will liberate the masses from the poverty that the APC and PDP brought to Nigerians.

Represented by comrade Joseph Ndirang noted that the manifesto of the Labour Party is to present credible and quality candidate during the General elections that will focus on Education, Health, Security, economy and the welfare of Nigerian Workers.

The National Chairman who was the electoral officer in charge of conducting the Governorship Primary elections in Plateau State declared Ambassador Yohanna Margif as the elected candidate of the Party for Plateau State Governorship seat.

The Labour Party Candidate Ambassador Yohanna Margif in his acceptance speech after being declared winner said he is convinced that he will be the next Governor of Plateau State after Lalong, saying the party will work together to the success of the election come 2023.

“I promise never to waiver or fail. I promise to energize and mobilize our teaming supporters in the next phase of the struggle, I put myself to the task knowing fully well that the foundation laid by our founding fathers must never be destroyed but built upon”.

The State Chairman of the Labour Party, Plateau State, Comrade Mrs Grace Zamfara said they will work together with Plateau people to ensure that Ambassador Margif is elected as the Governor of Plateau State Come 2023.
Share this on WhatsApp