Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Leader of the Apex Body for Yoruba Self-Determination and Self-Preservation Movement, Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide (IOOW), Professor Banji Akintoye, has described Sunday’s deadly attack allegedly unleashed against Christian Worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo-State by Gunmen suspected to be Fulani Herdsmen, leaving about 85 people dead, as a declaration of War Against the Yoruba People.
Responding through the Communications Secretary of IOOW, Mr. Maxwell Adeleye, Akintoye called on the State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to declare an emergency against the activities of Fulani Herdsmen in the state with immediate effect.
The renowned scholar said the effrontery of the Fulani Marauders needs to be frankly and courageously confronted so as to prove to their sponsors that the Yoruba people can never be intimidated or subjugated.
READ ALSO: Sunday bloodshed, terrorists invade Catholic Church, kill worshipers In Owo, Ondo
He said to permanently solve the Fulani Herdsmen’s quagmire, the Yoruba People need to negotiate their exit from the Union of Nigeria without further delay.
“We have stated very expressly that the Yoruba people need to negotiate their exit from Nigeria as a matter of urgency but our Partisan Political Actors in Yoruba Land never took us seriously. We warned them that there’s fire on the mountain but we were mocked because of their personal aggrandizement.
“Today, we have all been encircled, most especially, in Lagos. For Herdsmen to have the effrontery of bombarding a Church in Yoruba Land to kill about 85 people shows that we are now in a realistic danger.
“My urgent advice to Governor Akeredolu is to pick up the gauntlet and declare an emergency against the activities of all Fulani Herdsmen in the state with immediate effect.
“We have now been taken for granted. We need not pretend anymore. We must unanimously demand an exit from Nigeria.
“We the Yoruba People cannot live in the same country with characters whose idea of common citizenship in Nigeria is to brutalize, subjugate and even exterminate us. It is time to leave these characters now. All Stakeholders – the Elites, Traditional Rulers, and Our Women should act now.
“All the South West States, including the Yoruba Leaders in Kogi and Kwara States should equally declare an emergency against the activities of Fulani Herdsmen. We must now take our destinies into our hands.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp