Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


A Popular Nigerian Activist, Aisha Yesufu has advised Nigerians to Chose Peter Obi, the Ex Governor of Anambra State as their new president.
Aisha Yesufu depicted Obi as the man that have the capability of changing the nature of our country Nigeria for Good.
This event was reported on the Social media by Vanguard News Broadcasting Platform, they reported the event on their Facebook page on Friday, 10th of June 2022.
According to them, they stated that The mission via web-based entertainment for the Labor Party’s Presidential up-and-comer, Peter Obi to turn into the country’s next President in 2023 has gotten a lift on Friday as a basic liberties lobbyist and co-convener of #BringBackOurGirls, Aisha Yesufu embraced the previous legislative head of Anambra State.
Yesufu, on Twitter, said that the nation needs a ruler however a President, hence, encouraging Nigerian individuals to not relinquish their freedoms to cast a ballot by urgency.
The two significant issues standing up to Nigeria are weakness and unfortunate economy, which will be the essential focal point of the country’s next chief as different difficulties are additionally tended to.
These have made Nigerians to be needing choosing a valid and skilled lawmaker to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the overall decisions in 2023, as the decision All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party official candates, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar fight it out at the surveys.
Be that as it may, Obi has been seen among certain areas of Nigerian adolescents as the Third Force to break the curse of force trade among APC and PDP come one year from now.
Yesufu tweeted: “We really want a President and not a sovereign and the main individual that will be “Loyal” or “OBIDIENT” is Peter Obi! Distress should not make you relinquish your privileges! The #OfficeOfTheCitizen stays the most elevated office in the land!”
Obi’s desire of turning into the country’s President is undermined as its party has two factional Presidential up-and-comers including Samson Uchenna and Jude Ezenwafor before the last option pulled out from the race and apologized to Obi on Thursday.
Aisha Somtochukwu Yesufu (born 12 December 1973) is a Nigerian activist and businesswoman. She co-founded the #BringBackOurGirls movement, which brings attention to the abduction of over 200 girls from a secondary school in Chibok, Nigeria on 14 April 2014, by the terrorist group Boko Haram.
Peter Gregory Obi CON (born 19 July 1961) is a Nigerian politician and businessman, who was the vice presidential candidate in the 2019 Nigerian general election under the People’s Democratic Party


Share this on WhatsApp