Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


There is an adage that says “to every action, there is a corresponding reaction.” It may interest you to note that the leadership crisis and problems in the All Progressives Congress APC, have continued to take a different shape and dimension. As a result of this, the ruling party has been struggling to hold its national convention as scheduled. It should be recalled that after Adams Oshiomhole NWC was dissolved, the party has kept on struggling. It was in that process that Governor Mai Mala Buni was appointed as the Chairman of CECPC. His leadership aggravated lots of animosity and division in the party.
Just recently, one of the news making the rounds on social media is the alleged sack of Governor Mai Mala Buni, the Chairman of the CECPC. Currently, in a dramatic manner, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State has taken over the hem of affairs as the head of the CECPC from Governor Mai Mala Buni, who is presently in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. Even though Bello has said that he is only an acting Chairman of CECPC, from all indications, it seems that he has replaced Buni. However, the APC as a party is guilty of violating the Constitution.
It may interest you to note that under Section 183 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), It bars a sitting governor from holding any other executive office in any capacity whatsoever while serving as a State Governor, the APC’s CECPC whether headed by Governor Buni or Governor Bello remains constitutionally invalid.
As a result of this abnormality, any Governorship, State Assembly, National Assembly as well as Presidential Primary election conducted by any leadership produced by the illegal CECPC can only produce invalid candidates just like in the case of Zamfara and Rivers States in the 2019 general elections where the APC had invalid candidates due to defective primaries. It is sacrosanct that aspirants intending to contest in the 2023 general elections under the APC as well as their supporters to read the handwriting on the wall and not waste their resources, time, and energy in the APC.
With the absence of a National Working Committee, National Executive Committee, a Board of Trustees or legitimate structures in the States, the All Progressives Congress APC, is now plagued by confusion and fierce infighting by its various warlords with two National Chairmen, multiple factions in the states and a national secretariat now taken over by security agencies.
Do you think that the APC can be able to solve this great challenge ahead of them and even go further to win the 2023 polls? Feel free to share your thoughts on this.


Share this on WhatsApp