Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


With the 2023 presidential election fast approaching, some presidential hopefuls have begun making consultations to get strong support for their ambitions.
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is one of the presidential hopefuls who has been making consultations for his presidential bid.
Atiku, who was the 2019 presidential candidate of the PDP was reported to have met PDP members of both chambers of the National Assembly to support his ambition.
Prior to his meeting with the NASS members, one his ally, Chief Raymond Dokpesi has gone round the country to convince stakeholders of the PDP at the state level to support Atiku’s ambition.
ALSO READ: Presidency 2023: Atiku lobbies PDP caucus in House of Reps
His meeting with the NASS members may further strengthen the support he has gotten to clinch the presidential ticket of the PDP at the party’s presidential primary.
Why Atiku’s meeting with NASS is a smart move.
Recall that the PDP Governors were reported to currently have a stronghold on the party’s structure after the national convention of the party. The Governors were said to have been in pole position to decide who will emerge the presidential candidate of the party in 2023. Atiku is believed not to be in the Governors consideration as the Governors are said to be considering one of them to clinch the party’s presidential ticket.
Atiku probably realises this that is why he has chosen to consult with the NASS members.
There is a high chance that the PDP may adopt indirect primary for its presidential primary election. With this, Atiku may stand a chance against the Governors plan because every member of the National Assembly is an automatic delegates at the primary. If Atiku can get the support of majority of the NASS members and party stakeholders at the state level selected as delegates especially in the North, he may have a huge chance of becoming the presidential candidate of the PDP at the presidential primary.


Share this on WhatsApp