Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Medications are our emergency helpers when we are down with any ailment. This doesn’t mean that taking medications carelessly won’t backfire to the body, so there is need to always have a goahead from doctors or medical practitioners before proceeding with certain medications. Reason being that if some drugs or medications are taken without proper supervision, they can end up harming the organs.
In this article, we are going to have a look at some medications that are capable of damaging the kidneys if taken carelessly. The information contained in this piece was derived from WebMD and as such, just sit tight and enjoy this article while learning something new.
What Are These Medications That Can Cause Kidney Damage?
1. Non-steroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs Can Cause kidney damage if taken carelessly. Some of the anti-inflammatory drugs or medications are, ibuprofen, naproxen, aspirin. These are harsh drugs that should only be taken based on the doctor’s supervision so you don’t kill yourself.
2. Antibiotics can also be harsh enough to cause kidney damages because some of them contain strong compounds and chemicals that when abused or taken carelessly may be too harsh for the kidneys. The bad thing is that, some of the antibiotics when taken carelessly may form crystals in the kidneys that don’t get dissolved and also move to block the urine flow. So make sure you don’t take any form of antibiotics as it pleases, make sure you have a goahead from the doctor.
3. Diuretics; these are otherwise referred to as water pills. They are taken to help get rid of excess fluid from the body ans also to help treat high blood pressure but the negative aspect is that, sometimes or when taken carelessly, they might dehydrate the kidneys and cause them to get damaged.
4. Proton Pump Inhibitors such as medications used to treat heartburns, ulcers and acid reflux can also cause kidney damage. This can arise when you take them for too long or without the proper supervision of doctors which can now lead to kidney related complications and possibly kidney failure.


Share this on WhatsApp