Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The disturbing reports of incidents of blood clotting disorders and other adverse effects of Johnson & Johnson covid vaccine after jabs compelled the various health interventionist authorities in the United States (U.S.) to temporarily pause J&J vaccine.
The frequency and recurring data of deaths were disturbing to the U.S. authorities, giving credence to the enforcement of temporary paused in the U.S.
Some of the reported fatal cases include 37-year-old Jessica Berg Wilson who died from VITT after she was compelled to receive J&J’s COVID vaccine as a condition of volunteering at her child’s school.
Emma Burkey, 18 years teenager, was placed on a respirator, later underwent three brain surgeries from blood clots after receiving J&J’s vaccine.
Anne VanGeest, 35 years, was said to be in good health before receiving J&J covid vaccine jab. He died of a brain hemorrhage 11 days after receiving J&J’s COVID vaccine.
ALSO READ: COVID-19 booster causing more injuries, survey shows
Brad Malagarie, 43 years, was identified as a healthy father of seven, developed stroke from blood clots hours after receiving J&J COVID vaccine. The stroke paralysed Malagarie, made him unable to walk, talk; developed paralysis on the right side of his body.
Also, a man, 30 years, from California was on April 8, 2021, hospitalized and treated for a blood clotting disorder he suffered after receiving J&J vaccine.
Barbara Buchman developed blood clots in her lungs, stomach, brain and throat between 6 to 8 days after receiving J&J COVID vaccine.
Kendra Lippy, 38 years, was identified as a healthy woman who diagnosed with severe blood clots that caused failure of her organs after receiving J&J COVID vaccine. She lost her small intestine.
An autopsy report of a forensic pathologist for Michigan Medicine on Sept. 20, 2021, revealed that a woman, Sandra Jacobs, 60 years, died from blood clots after receiving the J&J vaccine.
U.S. federal agencies on April 13, 2021 paused J&J COVID vaccine, marketed under its Janssen subsidiary, to investigate the vaccine’s possible link to dangerous and potentially fatal blood clots.
The CDC vaccine advisory panel at a meeting on April 23, 2021, identified 15 women diagnosed with rare blood clots, including three who died. Two of the women were above 50 years,  the risk was found to be highest in women between ages 30 to 39.
The CDC’s advisory panel had admitted that the link between blood clots and J&J COVID vaccine was “plausible,” but concluded the vaccine’s “benefits outweighed the risks”. The center proceeded to recommended the vaccine for persons 18 years and above in the U.S. under the FDA’s Emergency Use Authorization.
FDA with the conclusion that the J&J vaccine adverse effects of blood clots were rare, ordered the resumption of the vaccine on April 26, 2021.
Share this on WhatsApp