Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The delegation of the House of Representatives of Nigeria’s National Assembly on evacuation mission in Ukraine has contributed to the cost burden of the government. Some stakeholders have questioned the rational of sending a delegation from the House of Representatives on a foreign mission that should be handled by the foreign affairs ministry, and by extension, officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces since the country is dealing with a war situation in Ukraine.
The delegation of the House had arrived Romania for oversight and assistance in the evacuation of Nigerians from Ukraine, according to a statement from the House of Representatives.
Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs to the Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Nkem Anyata-Lafia, in a statement in Abuja, indicated that delegation is led by the Majority Leader of House, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa.
Unfortunate, the delegation assisted in no way to facilitate airport protocols for the landing of planes from Nigeria, or any order aviation regulations to expedite flight operations. This is as the evacuation operations could not be effected on Thursday as scheduled.
Nkem Anyata-Lafia in the statement narrated: “The lawmakers, who departed the country yesterday after very close monitoring of the degenerating situation in the last few days through which they maintained close contacts with officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Nigerian Missions in Ukraine, Bucharest, Budapest, Warsaw, and other regional neighbouring countries to Ukraine, as well as the fleeing Nigerian nationals, were received on arrival by officials of the Nigerian Missions in the area.
“The delegation was subsequently led to meet with Nigerian evacuees who were already at the airport awaiting the first flight that would leave for Nigeria.”
The House made a resolution during plenary last week upon which Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila mandated Ado-Doguwa and the Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yusuf Buba Yakub, to visit Ukraine and ensure Nigerians who want to return home are supported.
President Muhammadu Buhari had on Wednesday approved the disbursement of $8.5 million for the evacuation of Nigerians stranded in war-turn Ukraine.
Share this on WhatsApp