Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Guava leaves are used to make herbal tea, while the leaf extract is taken as a supplement, they are incredible sources of fiber, vitamin C, lycopene, antioxidants, and potassium. This extraordinary nutrient content offers numerous medical benefits on them.


1. Heart Diseases
Guava leaves have anti-inflammatory, fiber-rich, and antioxidant properties, which can reduce the risk of heart disease and stroke.
2. Brain Health
Vitamins B6 (pyridoxine) and B3 (niacin) found in guava leaf improve blood circulation to the brain, stimulating cognitive ability while soothing nerves.
3. Immune enhancer
Guava leaf tea helps to strengthen and boost the immune system and reduces the chance of contracting a variety of ailments.
4. Pain Reliever
Guava leaf includes a component called quercetin, which makes it excellent for relieving pain and eradicating infections. Consuming guava leaves tea can assist in pain in your body.
5. Combat Allergies
The same quercetin has antihistamine and anti-inflammatory properties, avoiding the development of allergens such as food allergies, skin reactions, and asthma.
6. Help with Menstrual Problems
Guava leaf tea is high in important nutrients and may be beneficial for cloth menstruation, painful menstruation, and insufficient menstrual flow.
7. Aid in Weight Loss
Quercetin, which is present in guava leaves, and Catechin, which has fat-burning effects in the body, both inhibit the formation of fat cells. Guava leaf tea inhibits the conversion of carbs to sugar, hence decreasing appetite. This, in turn, will aid in your weight loss efforts.
8. Gastric Discomfort And Constipation
Guava leaves contain a variety of antimicrobial compounds. They are especially effective for a variety of stomach ailments such as stomach upset and constipation.
9. Stomach Ulcer
Methanol extract from guava leaves contains volatile oil, flavonoid, and saponin, and it is effective against stomach ulcers while also encouraging recovery.


Share this on WhatsApp