Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The United States (U.S.), and members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) have expressed concerns that Russia might resort to the use of chemical weapons in the conflict in Ukraine. The apprehension of the West arose as TV stations in Ukraine have been broadcasting messages explaining what to do in the event of a chemical weapons attack. Though, many believe that the use of chemical weapon may be unlikely.
President Joe Biden of U.S.  had expressed that ‘there are “real concerns” Russia might resort to using the internationally banned munitions, as it looks to move past its struggles on the ground in its invasion of Ukraine.’ European countries, expressing similar concern, noted that they ‘would not put it past President Vladimir Putin to do so.’
However, a specialist on the Russian military at CNA, a Washington think tank, Michael Kofman, was pessimistic the war would degenerate to that point. Kofman, in a podcast, stated, “Still, “I don’t really expect it to happen. I mean why? What would be the use of chemical weapons?” he noted that “with little to gain militarily, there would be enormous potential downsides.”
According to Kofman, “The biggest risk for Russia in using them is that they would build a very strong case for NATO intervention. “That’s something they want to avoid.”
NATO chief, Jens Stoltenberg, had recently disclosed that the organization had activated chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear defense elements as part of its defense plans. Jens Stoltenberg threatened that the deployment of such weapons by Russia would change the nature of the conflict. Invariably, NATO may be drawn into the war; and the implication may be an expanded war in the entire Europe, or a broader conflict scale of a third world war. Russia had earlier warned against external interference by the West in the Ukraine crisis, reminding the West that Russia is a nuclear power.
Putin had since activated Russia’s nuclear deterrence force on high alert.
Share this on WhatsApp