Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Since the news of the disappearance and eventual discovery of the body of Olubamise Ayanwole, a 22-year-old fashion designer came to public attention with the resultant arrest of a BRT bus driver, Andrew Omininikoron, in connection with the alleged rape and her death. More details are being revealed on the case with each passing day.
Bamise Ayanwola (Victim)
The latest information is the account of a former sales girl, who have come out to give her account of how the same BRT driver, Andrew Omininikoron raped her precisely on the 25th of November, 2021, inside a BRT bus, Andrew drove.
The former sales girl in an interview with the Punch, narrated how on the fateful day, she boarded the BRT driven by Andrew after closing from work around Ajah and was heading to her destination at Jakande, when the rape incident occurred.
ALSO READ: Bamise: How arrested Lagos BRT driver raped me inside bus, victim presents evidence
The lady said she was the only passenger picked up at the time by Andrew and that she sat further down the row of the passengers seats in the bus, and that later another male passenger had entered the bus, wanting to head to Oshodi, to which Andrew demanded four hundred naira for the trip, but the male passenger said he only could afford two hundred naira, to which Andrew rejected, and the male passenger stepped down from the bus, leaving only Andrew and the sales girl alone in the bus to continue the journey.

She then stated further that as Andrew drove, he then began the engage the lady with personal questions seeing him taking some medication, of which the lady replied that she was late to picking up her child, and later about her husband, which she said had left, Andrew kept asking more questions, which the lady at that point become uncomfortable with and she stopped responding to his questions.
The lady then said Andrew asked her to join him in the front, and that was when he started making advances at her, telling her that he wanted to chill with her ( have sex), which she she objected to, but that Andrew parked the bus in a place that could not easily attract public attention and dragged her downwards inside the bus, almost choking in the process and raped her.
After raping her, she said that Andrew insisted on taking her to her destination after the lady had requested to be allowed to alight from the bus, that Andrew locked the door to ensure this.
ALSO READ: When I reported Bamise’s case to the police station, a policewoman turned me down – Bamise’s sister
When they got to the lady’s destination, he offered the give money for painkillers as he requested for her account number and mobile phone number. The lady finally gave him the the information requested by Andrew and he transferred the sum of three thousand naira to her for that purpose.
Now, this is where this account from this former sales girl becomes vital in the ongoing investigation of the death of the alleged rape and death of Bamise.
The account statement of the sales girl, would carry the name of Andrew Omininikoron as the sender of three thousand to the sales girl’s account on the said date of the rape incident, which Andrew has the burden of prove to explain the circumstance that to the transferring of the money to the sales lady.
This piece of evidence makes unravelling this case of Bamise look good.


Share this on WhatsApp