Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
A woman, 52 years, died two weeks after taking Jonson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine in the United States (US). The 52-year-old woman, Monica Melkonian, died of blood-clotting disorders two weeks after receiving Johnson & Johnson vaccine jab.
Health officials in the U.S., admitting killings by covid vaccines, argue that blood-clotting disorders are rare.  Besides the death of Monica Melkonian two weeks after receiving Johnson & Johnson vaccine, there were thousands of vaccine-induced blood-clotting incidents reported to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The husband of Monica Melkonian, a resident of Oregon, who died in 2021 of blood-clotting disorder, two weeks after receiving Johnson & Johnson’s (J&J) COVID-19 vaccine, Stan Thomas, only defied censorship of the big powers, could only speak out publicly on the death of his wife.
Thomas argued: “When it is 8 million doses and two people are going to die from it, who thinks it is going to be you?”
It was gathered that the victim, Monica Melkonian, 52, received Johnson & Johnson vaccine jab at a vaccination clinic on April 7, 2021, on the day the CDC and U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had temporarily suspended J&J vaccine, as the authorities were investigating several reports of blood-clotting disorder identified as vaccine-induced thrombotic thrombocytopenia (VITT).
VITT was said to be an occasional fatal condition characterized by simultaneous acute thrombosis and thrombocytopenia that presents after receiving a COVID vaccine.
Melkonian was identified to have suffered most notable symptoms of persistent headache and pain behind her left eye.
Melkonian was said to be relieved of the headache on April 17, but at 4.00a.m on April 18, Thomas said he heard his wife call out as she fell down on the floor. She suffered instant seizure and could not move her right arm. Thomas, immediately suspecting a stroke caused by the shot, called 9-1-1.
Thoams said he requested his wife to squeeze his hand once for “yes” and twice for “no” in an effort to communicate with her at the emergency room, that was before she died.
According to Thomas, “The last thing that I said to her was that I loved her and asked her to squeeze my hand twice; She did.”
The CDC commenced investigation into the death of Melkonian on April 22, 2021,
The Oregon Health Authority in a statement argued: “This blood clot was seen in combination with very low platelets.
“Prior to the issuance of the pause, cases of this serious blood clot had been identified among six women around the country who received the vaccine.”
The deceased Melkonian and her husband, Thomas, were identified as “experts in the field of occupational health and safety” and were directly involved in the COVID pandemic response.
They were both were aware of the inherent risks posed by COVID vaccines, but they were of the view that the risks were light in comparison to the infection risks of the virus; but this has been proved otherwise.
 
Share this on WhatsApp