Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe majority leader of the House of Representatives has lashed out at a likely aspirant who wants to contend the primary with party leader Bola Tinubu when a PDP governor has even chased the individual out his state.
Alhassan Ado-Doguwa stated this in an interview on Channels Television, the lawmaker said that Amaechi cannot wrestle for power with the national leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, who, according to him, is physically and mentally fit to become President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, come 2023.
“I know so many people who want to be president of this country under the APC who have even lost out in their own local government,” he said.
“Someone who was a governor in his State and allowed the PDP governor to fight the APC right from the head to the tail, and you’re relaxing, doing nothing about it…doing nothing and you want to pretend that you want to be president.
“You want to be president under the APC, the ruling party today, when you have nothing to put to the table.”
As the interview pushed him further to know whom he was referring to, mentioning Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi who recently confessed he could not go to his state because of the dread of PDP Gov Nyesom Wike.
“I don’t want to make reference to any individual but if that is what your mind tells you, fine, so be it,” the lawmaker said.
Amaechi has never declared intention to run for the presidency. He asked those pushing him to give him money instead of the presidency.
Doguwa also spoke on physical fitness, saying from the way things are happening, everyone can believe that any individual can be subjected to one ailment or the other.
“His own case is not that sensitive that he cannot run the government,” he said of Tinubu.
“We’re talking about his physical fitness to run for the presidency of this country and I want to bet you, from all sense of responsibility that that man is fit to become the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023.
“Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a household name. No part of this country will tell you that this is a strange name, but when you’re trying to bring people from the blues, people who hardly win their constituents.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp