Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Two renowned human rights activists, namely, Aisha Yesufu, and Senator Shehu Sani, have clashed on twitter over the incursion of religious organisations into politics. Aisha Yesufu had declared support for religious groups to participate in elections so as to bring up competent leaders in the country. Senator Sani expressed concerns that such activity could be counter-productive in the north.
Aisha Yesufu had commended the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) for creating a Directorate in the Church for politics and governance.
Senator Sani in a counter-argument said that the religion directorate could be breeding unit for fanatical religiously crafted political ideas in pursuit of a theocratic state.
But Aisha Yesufu contested that that will not be the problem of RCCG but of the religious groups in the North.
Senator Shehu Sani in the social media war wrote @ShehuSani “once religious groups in the North begins to set up political departments, it’s not just going to be ‘a department’ like in the RCCG, it’s going to be a breeding unit for fanatical religiously crafted political ideas in pursuit of a theocratic state. “Abeg, Let the sleeping Lion lie.”
Aisha Yesufu countered @AishaYesufu “that will be the problem of the religious groups in the North and not the business of RCCG.
“People cannot lower their standards because others decide to be unfortunate!”
Senator Shehu Sani @ShehuSani hits back, @AishaYesufu “And their problems don’t remain as their problems.”
Pastor J.F. Odesola was, a fortnight ago, reported to have in memo titled: “Office of Directorate of Politics and Governance”, stated: “We write to notify you that the mission authority has created the Office of Directorate of Politics and Governance in the RCCG. Further to this, Pastor Timothy Olaniyan (PICP Lagos Province 12) has been appointed to lead the Office.
“You are kindly requested to appoint with immediate effect a Provincial Officer for your Province and also ensure that the same is done at all levels of the Church -Zone, Area, and Parish.
“The essence of this Directorate is to help coordinate the engagement of our people who are willing to be involved in politics as well as mobilise support for them when required.
“Kindly send to the office of the undersigned, details of your Regional and Provinces Coordinators within the next two weeks of receiving this letter.”
Aisha Yesufu, commending the RCCG, declared in a tweet @AishaYesufu
“Fantastic! Great move by RCCG. We all have to take part in politics.
“Staying away is absolute nonsense. It is the reason we have a dead Nation.
“At all levels, bring out competent people to compete and donate money to their campaign and when they get into office, make demands on them.”
Someone had expressed fear in response: @AishaYesufu “My fear is this,  when Redeem with that massive population produces a candidate and all RCCG/Christians vote. Won’t that be tantamount to one religion picking a candidate? Isn’t that how religious wars start? Other problems too are attached.”
Aisha Yesufu erased the fear, saying: “nobody stops other religious organisations to do the same.
“Let them give us credible candidates with competence, character and capacity.”
Senator Shehu Sani took Aisha Yesufu from this point, leading to the debate on social media.
Share this on WhatsApp