Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


A number of measures has been imposed on Chelsea, as a result of being one of Roman Abramovich’s assets which was frozen by the UK government, which is a way of cracking down on wealthy Russian billionaires who has connection with the Russian government.

Some of the measures imposed on Chelsea includes the restriction to sell match day tickets or club merchandise to fans, unable to sell or buy new players, restrictions to only £20,000 to be spent on traveling games, which is relatively small budget for a team like Chelsea, and the potential sale of the club has been halted.
Although, Chelsea were given a special license to continue operating as a football club, and other football related activities, which includes the fulfillment of their fixtures, and payment of staffs salaries.
With all the measures imposed on Chelsea, the club might not operate well, and it could affect the performance of the team, if something is not done as soon as possible to reduce or stop the effects of the sanction on the club.
So in this article, we will be looking at the only option that could help Chelsea stop the effect of the Roman Abramovich’s sanction on the club.
Allow The UK Government To Sanction The Sale Of The Club
Just last week, Roman Abramovich announce his decision to put Chelsea football club up for sale, and so many billionaires has shown their interest in buying the club, but with the process of the sale ongoing, the UK government has now sanction the Chelsea owner, which means he can not longer sell the club.
ALSO READ: Chelsea shirt sponsor Three suspends deal after Abramovich sanction
Although, the UK government can still issue a special license for the sale of the club to go ahead, but only with the condition that the government would be solely responsible to carry out the sale of the club, so as to prevent the proceeds from the sale going to Roman Abramovich.
Allowing the uk government to carry out the sale of the club, is the only way Chelsea could be free from all the measures that has been imposed on the club, after the change of club ownership.Roman Abramovich could choose to take legal action against the UK government, but that would be a lengthy process, which would not be in the best interest of the club, as the club might not be able to survive at the top level for too long, with the heavy sanction on them.
It all depends on Roman Abramovich to decide whether to let the UK government sanction the sale of the club, for the interesting of the club, or to take legal action to retrieve his properties back from the government, which would take a lengthy process.
Do you think Roman Abramovich should allow the government to sanction the sale of the club, or he should take legal actions against the government?


Share this on WhatsApp