Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


We always have heard that breakfast is the most important meal of the day and one should eat breakfast like a king.

But, how many of us actually follow the practice? Let us accept it, only a few.


While some of us do it because of irregular time management, some do it because they want to lose weight.
Hold on! If you belong to the latter set of people, scroll below and know more about breakfast mistakes that you are committing, in the name of weight loss.


Skipping breakfast


If hectic work hours are making you skip your breakfast, hold on, take a deep breath and re-schedule your day. Avoiding breakfast not only hampers your metabolism but also makes you lethargic. Hence, make sure that you enjoy your breakfast daily.


Eating wrong carbs


Packaged foods like cakes, muffins, cupcakes, and pancakes, may sound like fancy and healthy breakfasts, but they are not. They are loaded with carbs, which often result in weight gain.


Juice for breakfast


Starting your day with a glass of fresh juice is always a good idea, but do you know from a weight management perspective, it’s a bad idea. As per experts, fresh fruit or vegetable juice lacks fibre content and result in mid-day snack craving, which ultimately leads to weight gain. Hence, it is suggested to avoid juices for breakfast, rather go for fresh fruits.


Skipping protein


If you prefer aloo parathas over boiled eggs for breakfast, you are going wrong. As per experts, it is suggested to indulge in protein-rich breakfast like eggs, as they keep you full for longer durations and help avoid overeating.


Too much sugar in breakfast


People love relishing cupcakes, bowls of cereal, or even pancakes loaded with sugar. As per experts, these food items only add more calories for the day and reduce your scope to eat other healthy items throughout the day. So, avoid them!
We often indulge in household errands or office emails every day and keep postponing breakfast time. As per experts, the best time to indulge in breakfast is within two hours of waking up, as it is good for the metabolism too. Breaking the fast post results in overeating.



Share this on WhatsApp