Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The fans of the Premier League giants Manchester United have continually endured seasons of agony at Old Trafford.
It has remained disheartening how the Red Devils lost their identity since the exit of their former legendary manager Sir Alex Ferguson in 2013, with the club switching between various styles and principles from David Moyes to Jose Mourinho.
And even the presence of former United legend Ole Gunnar Solskjaer as manager from 2018 to 2021 was insufficient for the Old Trafford club to regain their lost identity.
Meanwhile, report reaching National Daily reveals that United who are believed to be edging closer to recruiting Ajax manager Erik ten Hag after the 52-year-old Haaksbergen born tactician was reported to have impressed during an interview for the role at Old Trafford.
National Daily understands that the Dutchman is a leading candidate for the job at the Theatre of Dreams and United officials are now said to favour him over PSG boss Mauricio Pochettino.
The 13-time English Premier League title holders now seem intent on getting things right off the pitch to ensure an improved on the field results improve and the club are keen on appointing a new Deputy Director of Football to work alongside John Murtough, while Ralf Rangnick will also take on a consultancy role.
 
ALSO READ: UEFA Champions League Quarter final: Chelsea fans will love this over Real Madrid
Ten Hag has thrived under a world class structure at Ajax and the Dutchman would expect the same if he’s to succeed at Old Trafford.
But in return, United could expect a manager that can implement an attacking style of play that is akin to what Guardiola has brought about at the Etihad.
The Dutchman worked alongside Guardiola for two years at Bayern Munich, learning from the Spaniard before his first steps into management
And Ten Hag has given an insight into what he could bring to Old Trafford by admitting Guardiola is a huge influence on his outlook.
‘I learned a lot from Guardiola,’ said Ten Hag in 2019.
‘His philosophy is sensational, what he did in Barcelona, Bayern and now with Manchester City, that attacking and attractive style sees him win a lot.
‘It’s this structure that I’ve tried to implement with Ajax.’
Share this on WhatsApp