Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Dogon tribe
An estimated 400,000 to 800,000 people live in Mali and Burkina Faso, making the Dogon one of the smallest tribes in Africa.
The Dogon’s ancestry is drawn from their oral tradition, and they are said to be from Mande, southwest of Bandiagara, Mali. Dogons drifted between 11th and 15th centuries to escape Islamization
Karamojong
The Karamojong were a group of people who roamed from what is now Ethiopia to Uganda around 1600 AD. They communicate in their own language, called the Karamojong language. They are an idyllic tribe whose main livelihood is still grazing livestock, and growing crops is an alternative in areas unfavorable for grazing livestock.
San Tribe
These tribes have a population of about 105,000 people and are spread across southern Africa. They can also be found in Botswana, Namibia, Angola, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Lesotho.
The San tribe is the oldest tribe in the world, and its unique hunter-gatherer philosophy continues to this day. Because of their past, they are the largest genetically divergent tribe in the whole of Africa.
Kgalagadi
The Kgalagadi tribe has a population of approximately 65,000 people spread across Botswana. The history of Kgalagadi is completely divorced from the oral traditions of the community. The changed clans of the Kgalagadi have different histories, but they all seem to agree with each other. They compared their background to Ngwato County.
Himba
The Himba are an ethnic tribe with a population of about 50,000 and are the smallest tribe in Africa. They are found in the Kunene region of northern Namibia and on the other side of the Kunene River in Angola. They are an indigenous tribe that has lived in Namibia for over 500 years. They are mainly meat farmers. They are a small tribe that still retains their traditional customs and functions under what is known as a bilateral lineage. The tribe is transitioning from their old-fashioned subsistence farming routine to a more advanced way of life.
Vonoma
The vonoma live in Uganda and are the smallest tribe there. Their population is 2,613. They are a dying ethnic tribe.


Share this on WhatsApp