Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Southern Nigeria Ethnic Youth Leaders Assembly has unanimously advised presidential aspirants from Northern Nigeria like Atiku Abubakar, Aminu Tambuwal, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Bala Mohammed, Bukola Saraki, to shun their presidential ambition and respect rotatory presidency as a means to allow fairness, equity and justice prevail among the six Geo-political Zones in Nigeria.
The group stated this in a Communique which was issued at the end of a one-day summit of the Southern Nigeria Ethnic Youth Leaders Assembly, held today, in Owerri, Imo State’s capital
The group at the summit which had its focus on the call for Justice, Fairness and Equity, insisted on a rotatory presidency in Nigeria, stressing that it would guarantee a sustainable peace and Unity in the country.
Adding, “this would provide a lasting solution to the extant quagmire in the nation”, it stated, as it further expressed acrimony towards the deteriorated security situation in Nigeria and called on President Mohammadu Buhari to fashion a best strategic approach to save Nigerians from banditry, Boko Haram insurgency, Kidnapping and all kinds of criminal gangsters terrorizing the country.
READ ALSO: 2023 Presidential Race: Reasons Tinubu has the upper hand over Atiku
Meanwhile, the leaders made a hearty appeal to Pro-Biafra groups particularly the Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) and Eastern Security Network, ESN to ‘sheath their swords’, urging to embrace a peaceful coexistence and and key into the extant quest for Nigerian president of the Southeast.
The Communique further pleaded with the Pro- Biafra groups to see the Nigerian President of the Southeast extraction as a means to heal all forms of Marginalization and reintegrate the region in the mainstream of Nigeria’s political project.
Arising from the Summit, the groups resolved as follows:
“That the existing power sharing between Southern Nigeria and Northern Should be upheld to build a strong Nigeria devoid of any form of Marginalization in Nigeria. Therefore, the group insists on the fundamentals, hence the President is coming to Southern Nigeria, standing on our tripod slogan of Justice, fairness and equity we passionately appeal to Frontline political parties especially APC, PDP and others to cede their presidential ticket to Southeast.
“Noted that when new democracy was ushered into Nigeria, Southwest was earnestly considered which produced Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, and when by subsequent opportunity it returned to Southern Nigeria between 2009 and 2015, South-South had it through President Goodluck Jonathan.
“As presidency is returning to Southern Nigeria, it is justifiable that the Southeast should produce the president of Nigeria in 2023 to encourage political stability and national unity.

Share this on WhatsApp