Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The news about Korra Obidi and her husband isn’t something new anymore. For some days, Nigerians and fans have been trying to settle the fued going on between both lovers. As each day passes, more drama and outburst of emotions continue to resurface.
Yesterday, a clip sighted online showed a recording of the Instagram live session of Justin and he was seen emphatically demanding that Korra repeat a statement she made. From the Instagram live session, many aren’t certain whether the couples will settle their differences. In this article, we will be discussing and citing reasons why Korra Obidi’s Husband wants a divorce.
So, If you want to know the reasons behind Korra Obidi marriage crisis, continue reading.
According to Justin Dean, these are the reasons why he wants a divorce.

1. Alleged Cheating
Cheating is common in most marriages. That is most marriages end when the other partner founds out. This is the same thing that is happening in Korra Obidi’s marriage. Justin Dean made it known that he is tired of the “Cheating”. Hence, this is one of the reason behind their marriage crisis.
ALSO READ: I’ve been trying to save our marriage since 2018 – Korra Obidi’s Husband
2. Narcissism
First of all, what is Narcissism? Narcissism is excessive interest in or admiration of oneself and one’s physical appearance. It is human nature to be selfish and boastful to a certain degree. There is a significant difference between healthy narcissism, being self-absorbed and difficult and having a pathological mental illness like narcissistic personality disorder.
This was another reason why Justin Dean wants a divorce. But the question now is, “how did Korra Obidi express her narcissism?”. Well, that’s a story for another day.
3. Lack of Accountability
Lack of accountability is when you apologise, but don’t change your behaviour. Acknowledging how you may have hurt your partner, and what more you need to bring into the relationship is step one. The most important thing is to make the changes.


Share this on WhatsApp