Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Lupus is an incurable disease. Researchers are still looking for ways to provide a cure. Women are mostly diagnosed with the disease. Recently, a Nigerian actress, Kemi Afolabi was diagnosed with the disease. She was told she has at least 5 years to live.
Lupus is an inflammatory disease caused when the immune system attacks its tissues. You might carry the disease for years without knowing. When it gets chronic, your chances of survival will be very slim.
ALSO READ: Doctor says I have five years to live, actress Kemi Afolabi opens up
Aside from Kemi Afolabi, three famous people were also diagnosed with the disease years back. One got used to living with it through medication, one had a transplant, and the other believe she doesn’t babe it after being diagnosed.
1) Toni Braxton
American singer, Toni Michele Braxton was diagnosed with the disease in 2008. She has survived with the disease responding well to medications.
When Braxton was told she has the disease, she said the doctor told her that she might need a heart transplant because it attacked her heart. She refused to do heart surgery but stuck to medication.
ALSO READ: Kemi Afolabi: Medical facts you need to know about Lupus disease
She said that she has been following the medication according to how her body responds. She follows what her body says, she has been exercising, and she is on diet.
2) Selena Gomez
Singer, Selena Gomez was also diagnosed with Lupus in 2015. she was told she might later need a transplant.
In 2017 the performer received a kidney transplant from her best friend, Francia Raísa, and has proudly shown off her transplant scar on several occasions on social media.
The incident has made Selena Gomez appreciate her body more.
3) Lady Gaga
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, known professionally as Lady Gaga revealed that she tested borderline positive for the disease. She believes she doesn’t have the disease.
The actress has been doing good, going on with her daily activities as usual with the full assurance that she doesn’t have Lupus.
Even though Kemi Afolabi has been said to have only 5 years to live, I believe she can still go beyond that through medication or transplant of the organ affected.


Share this on WhatsApp