Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) will be conferring its highest grade of membership on some Marketing professionals who have met the criteria to become Fellows of the Institute.
The induction ceremony comes up on Friday March 18, 2022 from 12.00noon.
Tunji Adeyinka, the Group Managing Director of The Republicom Group (a Marketing, Sales and Technology Group), will deliver the keynote speech for the event.
Adeyinka is a seasoned Marketing Consultant with a pedigree in the Marketing Industry and years of experience in various sectors of the economy including the Fast Moving Consumer Goods and Telecoms Sectors.
According to the President/Chairman of Council of the Institute, Mr. Idorenyen Enang, fnimn, this year’s edition is unique in all ramifications as NIMN will be ushering into the Institute a fresh set of seasoned Marketing professionals.
READ ALSO: Owoturo, others to speak at ICSAN 2022 Company Secretaries, Registrars’ Forum
In his words, “the conferment of fellowship still remains one of the most important events in the Institute’s calendar as it ushers into the Institute our professional colleagues who are at the highest level of Marketing practice. I am delighted to welcome these new set of marketing practitioners into the Institute as the main body that is statutorily empowered by the constitution of our nation to regulate the business of Marketing as a professional body”.
This year’s virtual edition is expected to attract over 500 senior Marketing practitioners across the country and beyond. The organisers have also confirmed attendance by senior fellows of NIMN and other stakeholders in the wider marketing and public relations community.
In the same vein, the Chairperson of the Conference and Events committee of the Institute, Mrs Adenike Olufade stated that this year’s edition focuses more on the business environment that is now predominantly digitalized and how best to navigate the fast-changing marketing landscape as well as provide insights on how to sustain business as a Marketing practitioner in order to effectively deliver sustained and profitable brand growth.
According to Adenike, “the Conference and Events team strategically selected this theme to address the reality of our time as Marketing professionals practicing in a technologically based economy to remain relevant and value adding within our various business environments.
 
Share this on WhatsApp