Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






Three armed robbers have been arrested by residents of Aleyita, Lugbe, in the Federal Capital Territory, on Sunday, while repelling an attack on the community by the suspected robbers.
The robbers who were numbered up to 15 ran for dear life when residents joined forces and confronted them.
According to a resident of Aleyita, Hakeem Azeez, the residents of the community became on alert after a gang of robbers attacked Chika Phase 3, a neighbouring street, and dispossessed residents of their property last week.
He further revealed that one of the suspects who refused to surrender was killed while engaging the residents in a fight.
He said, ”They came around 6am and were jumping from one house to the other. It was like a movie, as one of them was walking on people’ s roofs.
”They had robbed the other street last week and carted away phones and other property. We knew they would come again and truly, they did.
”One was caught while struggling to go away with some of the things stolen from people. Two others were given a hot chase and apprehended.
” One of those they went to rob engaged them; they fled when other residents joined; but one stayed put and tried to fight them, instead of surrendering. He was, however, overpowered, leading to his death.
He however pleaded with the police to investigate the matter properly and ensure that the other culprits are apprehended.
Recall that two suspected ‘ one chance’ armed robbers were also arrested by the state police who were on ” stop- and- search’ ‘ duty to specially look out for victims of ” one- chance’ ‘ criminals.
Items recovered from the suspects include one black Toyota Corolla car, their operational vehicle, N401, 000, Point- of- Sale machine, four mobile phones, two sharp knives, ropes, foreign currency notes and duct tape.
The two suspects disguised as taxi driver and passenger waiting to pick other passengers as they picked up the victim who had just closed from work.
The robbers locked the car, changed the route, tied her up, and demanded her ATM card while they drove to her destination.
They also threatened to r*pe and murder her if she refused to cooperate. A sum of N391, 000 was withdrawn from her account through ATM and POS transactions, as well as the N10, 000 cash in her possession.






Share this on WhatsApp