Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


As 2023 general elections draws closer, there are more political activities that are being unveiled which may, considerably, shape the general elections across the 36 states of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Prominent political figures, opinion moulders, critical individuals and concerned citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are also exchanging conversations, critically examining how the political future of the country may look like, during the contest for the 2023 general elections.
Although, there are many political parties that would be participating in the 2023 general elections, but more attentions may be given to the two major political parties in the country, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
In the light of this, it is important to look at the proximity of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to be disinterested into factions in two States because of the contest for the governorship tickets of the states.
1. Kaduna State
The Kaduna State chapter of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), may be lured into tough political hullabaloo. This may be caused by the contest for the governorship ticket of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Remarkably, Kaduna State governorship candidate in 2019 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon Isa Kudan Ashiru, lost in 14 Local Government Areas and won nine in the 2019 Governorship election in the state.
ALSO READ: 2 politicians Obasanjo may support to contest presidential race if they get the ticket to contest
According to a publication by the Vanguard in 2021, Hon Isa Kudan Ashiru insisted that he was rigged out in 2019 and vowed to recontest for the governorship seat of the State, in the 2023 general elections.
However, the recent political development in the state is, possibly, linking the former Federal Lawmaker from the State, Senator Shehu Sani, to the 2023 Governorship ticket of the party. It could be recalled that Senator Shehu Sani just defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and prior to his defection, it is not very unlikely that he might have struck agreement with some political stalwarts of the party, regarding the 2023 Governorship contest in the state.
Possibly, the political contest for the Governorship ticket of PDP in Kaduna State should be expected to expose the opposition party to severe political crisis, if not we’ll managed.
2. Lagos State
Lagos, of all states, has a unique political quality. It has not been governed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or any of the former members of the party, since 1999 when democracy returned to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. However, the contest for the Governorship ticket of PDP in Lagos State may tear the party into pieces, ahead of their bid to govern the state, come 2023.
ALSO READ: Why ex-President Jonathan shouldn’t be lured into 2023 presidential race
Looking at the standing political rift within the Lagos State chapter of PDP, one may uphold the possibility of the 2019 Governorship candidate of the party, Jimi Agbaje, to recontest for the same position in 2023. However, the recent political activities in Lagos State suggest better that the party may be looking toward picking one of the aggrieved boys of the former Executive Governor of Lagos State and a National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Take a look at the recent defection of Abdulazeez Olajide Adediran who is popularly known as Jandor and the speculation surrounding the person of the former Governor of the State, Akinwunmi Ambode, some stakeholders of the party may prefer using one of the aggrieved Tinubu’s boys while the loyalists of Jimi Agbaje may want to give the decision, a good run.
This may sincerely lead to a severe political crisis among members of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, ahead of the 2023 Governorship election in the State.


Share this on WhatsApp