Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Taraba State Police Command has confirmed the killing of seven persons and inflicting of injuries on many others by herdsmen who went on reprisal attack in Tor Damisa community, Donga Local Government Area, Taraba State.
The Police Public Relations Officer in Taraba State, Abdullahi Usman,  was gathered to have revealed that the herdsmen burnt many houses in the community.
It was disclosed that one herdsman was attacked and injured by a gang of Tiv militia in the community forest. Fulani herdsmen were alleged to have mobilized and visited the community on revenge mission, killing seven people and injuring many others in the attack some days after the herdsman was attacked.
The PPRO, however, said that a combine team of the police, army and local hunters are on manhunt of the killer herdsmen.
The PPRO was cited to have narrated: “A Fulani young herder was rescued from the bush where he was shot on his leg with multiple fracture and was brought before the divisional police officer there in Donga and was questioned as to what led to the fracture and he confessed to have been shot by some suspected Tiv militia.
“The shepherd was later identified to be from Plateau State and his relations were contacted and handed over to them for further treatment at the Plateau State Teaching Hospital.
“When they left with the injured herder, the other herders living within Tor Damisa in Donga Local Government Area, now suspected those Tiv tribes living around and then mobilized to attack the Tiv settlements.
“We got the information of the pending attack and also mobilized alongside the military and professional hunters, but unfortunately before they could reach Tor Damisa village the Fulani herders had already attacked the Tiv settlement and fired sporadically where they killed seven people including a woman.
“When the security agencies arrived, they calmed the situation down and are currently in pursuit of the attackers. As I talk to you now, the situation is under control and the area combed.”
The PPRO appealed to residents of the community to remain calm while the security operatives are handling the matter.
 
Share this on WhatsApp