Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The consultation and mobilisation teams of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo SAN for the 2023 presidential election are ‘eating’ deep into the polity, generating group momentum that could upstage other presidential aspirants for the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), including the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The ad hoc campaign teams have been digging deep into the APC structures and other partisan stakeholders necessary for the securing of the APC presidential ticket.
The vice president’s contacts and mobilization scheme was boosted by the endorsement of Osinbajo for the APC presidential by The Osinbajo Think Tank (TOTT) and other groups.
The Co-Convener of The Osinbajo Think Tank (TOTT), Olugbenga Olaoye, at a political gathering in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, titled: – The Uyo Declaration – for the endorsement of Osinbajo by the various mobilization groups, under the aegis of “The New Tribe” emphasized that Professor Osinbajo meets all criteria needed to drive a new Nigeria. Olaoye explained that TOTT is a representation of varied interests in the corporate space, who came together to promote the candidacy of Yemi Osinbajo.
The Convener asserted that Osinbajo has shown sound understanding of macroeconomic, fiscal, governance, sectoral, and policy issues to drive faster pace development for Nigeria.
Olaoye stated that TOTT and over 100 other groups were in Uyo for declaration of their endorsement of the presidential aspiration of Osinbajo for the APC ticket. He said the vice president is a global phenomenon and a highly respected economist.
According to Olaoye, “Nigeria needs a faster-paced development to deal with massive poverty, unemployment, and insecurity, and the Vice President will make this happen fast for Nigeria, bringing in his vast experience.” He added that Osinbajo has become renowned for transparency, and a man of impeccable integrity.
Olaoye stated: “At TOTT, we came together to promote the candidacy of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. I will refer to him as Mr. Capable. He is the only one that can turn around the fortune of this Nation.
“A lot of things are happening now, and we need somebody with the grit, the personality, the charisma that can turn things around.
“Osinbajo has been there and he has seen a lot in the government circle. He has the experience; he knows the law and he understands the economy and international jurisprudence. If we give this man the chance to lead us, in the next dispensation, Nigeria will be great again.
“He is a detribalized Nigerian. He is much loved and trusted in the North, where his duty as the Vice President has taken him to, many times. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has bold and innovative ideas on solving the challenges facing the country. He definitely will improve security in the country.”
The coalition expressed optimism that Osinbajo has capacity to manage Nigeria’s multi-lingual, cultural and religious diversity very well, emphasizing that Osinbajo has proven to all that he has vast experience in managing cultural, ethnic, and religious diversity.
While Osinbajo is yet to declare formally for the 2023 presidential race, his campaign coalition has taken Nigeria to the altitude of political awareness.
The APC national leader, Tinubu, has also been traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria seeking endorsement and support for his presidential ambition.
 
Share this on WhatsApp