Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A 15-year-old suspect, Odo Chiamaka has confessed to how she strangled a six-month old baby boy following her initiation with a biscuit by her friend and a classmate while in primary school in Anambra state, South East, Nigeria.
The teenager was paraded before newsmen on Monday by the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, who was represented by the Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu at the Lagos State Police Command Headquarters, Ikeja.
The mother of Obiora Osokolo (the victim), Jayden Osokolo, who wasn’t around during the parade, had employed the girl on the 7th January and she committed the murder on February 6, 2022.
While narrating her side of the story to our correspondent, Chiamaka said she is a member of a nocturnal society called “Ogoloma” cult group based at Inagolo in Anambra state.
READ ALSO: How suspected Uber drivers robbed passengers at gunpoint
“When I relocated to Lagos, they appeared spiritually and demanded human blood from me and I begged them that I don’t want to shed blood but I could do other things I am asked to do. On Saturday, February 5, 2022 in the night, they appeared and demanded that I bring the baby kept under my care. I refused and they threatened to strangle me.
“After much entreaties, they gave me a basin and commanded me to call the name of the baby four times. The moment I called his name, Obiora Osokolo, four times, the basin turned to blood. That is all I knew. I didn’t use anything or an object to kill the baby outside mentioning his name four times” the suspect narrated.
Asked how they meet at their coven, she explained being the lowest person in the ranks and doesn’t have any say but added that they never gave her anything like concoction to drink during their meetings.
How she got the job of a nanny at her age, she reiterated that her uncle got her the job on 7th January 2022 and was promised to be paid N15,000. “I have not even received any salary before this happened.”
Share this on WhatsApp