Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Kaduna State Government has placed residents on red alert over perceived plot by bandits to bomb the state. The state government, therefore, enjoined residents to be vigilant, saying “explosive devices have been planted by terrorists in various public places” in the state.
The state government in a statement by the Commissioner for Internal Security and Homeland Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, indicated that the alert became necessary after assessments carried out by security agencies, and the possibility of terrorists plotting to harm citizens.
Kaduna State Government, accordingly, called for vigilance against explosive devices planted by terrorists.
According to the commissioner, “the Kaduna State Government issued a crucial advisory to citizens across the state, for heightened alertness to the threat of explosive devices planted in public places by terrorists.
“This follows sustained assessments by security agencies, and the possibility of terrorists looking to harm citizens, by discreetly placing explosives in public facilities such as schools, hospitals, hotels, bars, entertainment centres, restaurants, parks, major roads, and places of worship.
“Security agencies are working to ensure that no harm or destruction comes to residents and facilities.
“Citizens are, however, urged to be alive to this threat and to remain watchful for suspicious persons loitering, or packages seemingly abandoned in strategic places.
“Increased general awareness is strongly advised, and frequent thorough checks of premises are recommended.
“Any suspicious person or object observed must be immediately reported to the nearest security formation. The Security Operations Room may also be contacted, on the lines 09034000060 and 08170189999.
“Quarry operators are also advised to enhance security on their sites, and to ensure that explosive materials are not readily accessible to be carted away for criminal purposes. Sites will be inspected for compliance.
“Close monitoring of the situation by security agencies will continue.”




ReplyReply allForward



Share this on WhatsApp