Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


As we move closer to the 2023 general elections, prominent politicians, political strategists, critical individuals and concerned citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are exchanging opinions on who should succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, in 2023.
Amidst agitation for zoning of the presidential tickets of the major political parties in the country, there are some presidential aspirants who have made their intentions to vie for the presidential seat of Nigeria, in 2023, known to the public.
Considerably, as the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), convincingly, zoned her presidential ticket to the Southern part of Nigeria; there is impression that the main opposition party in Nigeria, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) may emulate the same zoning principle before the parties go for primaries, in the course of picking their presidential candidates, ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Whether you like it or not, thus far, the former Executive Governor of Lagos State and a National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is the most popular presidential candidate from the southern part of Nigeria, today, that has shown interest to occupy the presidential seat of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, after the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure in 2023.
ALSO READ: Why Atiku’s meeting with NASS members is a smart move that may help him clinch PDP ticket
However, it is not that there are no other popular politicians in the South, who can measure up to, at least, half of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s political feet, in the course of hitting ground, in as much as political supremacy is concerned, but the only two politicians who may achieve the average political height of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu are you to make declaration for the 2023 presidential election.
1. Peter Obi
Peter Obi is the former Executive Governor of Anambra State. He was the vice presidential candidate of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the 2019 general elections.
Peter Obi has earned himself a considerable size of supporters from across the 36 states of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, possibly, when he was a running mate to a more popular Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the 2019 presidential election.
ALSO READ: Key obsatcles to Saraki’s presidential bid in 2023
Besides, Peter Obi seems to enjoy massive support from his people in the Southeast. He may considerably give Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu a good run, if he is picked by his party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ahead of the 2023 general elections.
2. Prof Yemi Osinbajo

Prof Yemi Osinbajo was a former Attorney General of Lagos State and a second term Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Although, Prof Yemi Osinbajo rise through the political magnificence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in all the political offices that he has ever held, but this is politics.
With the calibre of individuals projecting the perceived presidential ambition of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo against Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential ambition, they are set of individuals who may hit ground running, at least, to meet up with half of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s political feet, if Prof. Yemi Osinbajo could join the presidential contest in the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) .


Share this on WhatsApp