Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Former media aide to President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr. Doyin Okupe has withdrawn from the 2023 presidential race, and thrown his weight behind the presidential ambition of former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi.
Okupe was also the Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan made this declaration on Wednesday in Abeokuta, Ogun state during a press conference.
He said in aligning himself with the wish of elders and in the interest of equity and justice, the 2023 political race must be conceded to the South-East; that is, the Igbos.
“I and my supporters within and outside the PDP are teaming up with His Excellency, Peter Obi.
READ ALSO: Doyin Okupe, N100m from Sambo Dasuki
“At the same time, I want to enjoin all other aspirants from the South; Chief Dele Momodu, Senator Anyim, and His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike to come with me and let us team up with Peter Obi. So we can give the South the best possible chance.
“For the avoidance of doubt, I am not fanning the embers of division, rather I am by this action lightening the torch of unity by establishing political stability on the pillars of truth and justice upon which the Bible tells us that even the throne of the Almighty God is founded.
“I observed that the leadership of the PDP seems to be driving us all towards a fait accompli. The most central consideration concerning the presidential primaries is the issue of zoning.
“It is clear to me that those at the helm of affairs of the party are trying to hoodwink those of us aspirants from the South to commit ourselves to obtain the requisite forms before coming up with the original position that ‘every zone can contest the presidency’.
He described the position as politically fraudulent, unjust and inequitable. “But as a politician, I have come to accept the ill-defined zoning arrangement, and still forge ahead with my unrepentant call for a rotation of power to the South.
READ ALSO: 2023: Why PDP must not field a candidate from North – Okupe
“I turned 70 years a few days ago, and I have made a covenant with my maker that for the rest of my life, I shall uphold this spirit and principles of our forebears as manifestly displayed and represented in our collective socio-political heritage – THE AFENIFERE.
“Two weeks ago, Pa Ayo Adebanjo called me for the first time into his bedroom and admonished me that no matter what circumstances we Yorubas find ourselves in the ever gyrating political circus of Nigeria, I must uphold the truth and follow the path of equity and justice,” he added.


Share this on WhatsApp