Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Are you aware that there are certain medications that are capable of causing erectile dysfunction in men? Most times there is a hasty conclusion as to what may cause erection issues or disturbances in men when it’s actually due to medication or drugs such a person is taking at the moment.
So for the purpose of enlightenment based on the facts obtained from WebMD, we are going to have a look at some of the medications that can cause erectile dysfunction men. If as a man you are battling with erection problems, then you should conduct a background check to know if it’s due to any of the medications going to mentioned in this piece. Just sit tight and enjoy this article while learning something new.
ALSO READ: 5 things you shouldn’t do immediately after exercise
What Are The Drugs That May Cause Erectile Dysfunction In Men?
1. Prostate cancer medications can cause erectile issues in men. Some prostate cancer drugs and medications when taken can have side effects on the body of a man, here are examples of the medications that can cause this problem; flutamide, leuprolide etc. So if you are on a prostate cancer medication, then that could be the reason why you are having issues with attaining and maintaining an erection.
2. Certain muscle relaxants or medications that relax muscles like ciprobenzaprine and orphenadrine. If for any reason you get on a medication that is aimed at relaxing muscles, it may affect your erection.
3. Diuretics or medications aimed at reducing the blood pressure or even managing the blood pressure can also cause this problem in men. If you are on a medication or taking a drug that is aimed at regulating your blood pressure, then it should not come as a surprise to you if you start having other side effects or reactions such as difficulty attaining an erection. Here are some of the drugs or medications of blood pressure that are capable of causing this problem; benazepril, furosemide, bumetanide, captopril, veraparil, enalapril, etc.


Share this on WhatsApp