Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The President of the United States of America, occupying the most coveted seat in the White House, is also arguably the most protected person in the world. Whether it is state visits, diplomatic trips, campaigns, or family holidays, their every move is meticulously planned and coordinated, leaving very little margin for error. And it is always an elaborate affair, especially for those directly involved, as they must be ready to move at all times and to any destination.
Preparations for a presidential journey often involve transporting the Presidential state car, officially nicknamed the beast, to the mission destination. And since the beast does not fly in the same plane with the presidential entourage, this job is undertaken by the workhorse of the US Air Force-the C-17 Globemaster. This heavy-duty transport aircraft is designed to carry a hefty payload of almost 180,000 pounds (81,647 kilograms), also take off from and land on austere airfields or dirt strips. So, the US Secret Service uses the C-17 to transport the 20,000-pound (9,072 kilograms) custom-built presidential Cadillac alongside other limos and heavily armored vehicles. The White House Transportation Agency or WHTA looks after the motor vehicle transportation needs of the president as directed by the White House Military Office Because wherever the president goes, the presidential motorcade goes with them.
ALSO READ: What it takes for a driver to drive the BEAST


Coordinating the presidential motorcade is no easy feat for the WHTA as the presidential escort usually includes 40 to 50 vehicles. These vehicles in the long well-protected convoy carry the First Family, White House Staff, Official Guests of the First Family, and other authorized personnel. The presidential state car is a custom-made stretched limo built to provide maximum security to its VIP passengers. The presidential state car is reported to have a five-inch-thick bulletproof glass with military-grade armor to protect the rest of the vehicle and an eight-inch door to protect the president from any direct hit. The tires of the custom-built limousine are reported to be Kevlar reinforced, which makes it puncture-resistant. Because of the heavy protections around the vehicle, the presidential state car can only reach about 60 miles per hour (97 kilometers per hour).


Share this on WhatsApp