Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) says the Lagos state government is liable in the ritual killing of 22-year Bamise Ayanwola, and has demanded a N1bn compensation for the family of the late fashion designer.
It was learnt that Ayanwola got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on Saturday, February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus belonging to the Lagos state government with plate number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7 p.m. at Chevron Bus-Stop.
According to HURIWA, the facility where she was kidnapped belongs to the Lagos state government, therefore, the government of Lagos State and the governor must take direct responsibility for what has happened.
READ ALSO: HURIWA slams AGF Malami for undermining Abba Kyari’s extradition application
“Whereas HURIWA applauds the Lagos state government and Lagos state police command for swiftly arresting the killer of miss Oluwabamise,  but we still feel that this killing is totally avoidable if the Lagos state government had done forensic background checks of all the drivers and other staffs they are employing in their transport company.
“The Lagos State government owes the citizens the duty of care and the obligations to ensure that they are safe whilst using the services provided for by the government and paid for by the citizens.
The group also advised the Lagos state government to always undertake a comprehensive background assessment of all the drivers to be sure there are no other ritual killers embedded in the Lagos state transport services.
It was learnt that her corpse was dropped on Lagos Island by a BRT vehicle and a jeep.
READ ALSO: Body of lady who went missing after boarding BRT found, body parts missing
Upon sighting the corpse by the roadside, an unknown man reportedly informed officials of Ebute Ero Police Station on Saturday evening. The corpse was later taken to the Mainland Hospital mortuary.
“An autopsy will be carried out to confirm if any part of her body is missing.”
It was learnt that Ayanwola got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on Saturday, February 26 when she boarded a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at about 7 p.m. at Chevron Bus-Stop.
It was gathered that the victim worked as a Fashion Designer at Chevron Estate, Ajah and spent weekends at Ota, Ogun State, with her sister.
Sensing danger as the bus did not pick any other passenger at subsequent bus stops, Oluwabamise had engaged a friend using voice notes on her phone.
The voice notes showed that the bus driver said he liked Oluwabamise and asked for her name and other details.
She told her friend to pray for her as she became suspicious of the bus driver and in response, the friend told her to alight at Oworonsoki bus stop — before Oshodi bus stop.
Oluwabamise had also sent a video to her friend showing how dark it was in the bus and said, “There are three men and one woman in the bus. The woman is sitting at the back. That’s the number of the bus in case. Please pray for me.’’




Share this on WhatsApp