Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The Leaders of the All Progressives Congress APC should find means to bring back some Aggrieved members of the Party, who have dumped the Party for one reason or the other.
It should be recalled that APC was formed by the amalgamation of many Political Parties across the country.
Among the Political Parties that formed the APC are Action Congress of Nigeria, All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA, Congress For Progressives Change CPC and All Nigerians Peoples Party ANPP.
However, Some Pioneer members, who have contributed to the Progress of the Party, have dumped the Party for other Political Parties. Some of the Pioneer founders of APC, who have left the Party but need to return shall be discussed.
One of the Politicians that APC Leaders, should bring back into the Party, is the Governor of Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki.
ALSO READ: 2023 Presidency: Big dilemma for whoever gets APC presidential ticket will face
Governor Obaseki dumped the Party when he he was denied second term Governorship Ticket in APC. It should be recalled that his Predecessor, who was the Former National Chairman of the Party, Comrade Adams Oshiomole, used everything in his capacity, to ensure that Obaseki was not given the Governorship ticket in APC.
PC Leaders said the Governor doesn’t Posses good certificate to contest for second term Governorship election. Obaseki dumped the All Progressives Congress APC and defected to PDP.
Obaseki contested under the Platform of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, and win the Governorship Election. However, APC Leaders, should find all means to Persuade the Governor, to return to the Party.
The reason is that the chances of APC to win future elections, is very slim in Southsouth. Meanwhile, the only Governor that APC Leaders can approach is Governor Godwin Obaseki.

ALSO READ: Why Tinubu shouldn’t have said he doesn’t need physical strength to be Nigeria’s President
APC Leaders can easily approach Governor Obaseki because it was the Party that brought him, into limelight of Politics. He contested the first term Governorship election under the Platform of the Party.
It should be recalled that, the only APC controlled State in Southsouth, is Cross River State. Meanwhile, APC didn’t win the last Governorship election in the state, it was after the Governorship Election that Governor Ben Ayade dumped the PDP for the APC in the State.
Therefore, APC Leaders can look for all means to bring back Governor Obaseki into the Party, so as to win Future Elections in Southsouth with ease.
Another Politician that APC Leaders should bring back into the Party, is the former Governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso.
Kwankwaso is a grassroot Politician in Kano State. He dumped the All Progressives Congress APC for the Peoples Democratic Party PDP in 2014. He contested against Atiku Abubakar, under the Platform of the PDP but lost at the Primary Election.
Recently, it was gathered that Kwankwaso is making move to join New Nigeria Political Party, NNPP. The Leaders of the Party, made it Known that, they have been discussing with Kwankwaso, to dump PDP and join NNPP.
ALSO READ: 2 Politicians who deserve to be president but yet to declare their interest to contest
It was reported that Senator Kwankwaso, had earlier accused both the PDP and APC, that they have already failed Nigerians in the Past.

However, the APC Leaders should find all means to bring back Senator Kwankwaso into the Party. It should be recalled that, there was a time it was rumoured that Senator Kwankwaso, will return to APC but he debunked the rumours.
If the APC Leaders can win the heart of Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso into the Party, it will boost the winning chances of the Party in the state.
Though, Kano state is one of the APC controlled states but if Kwankwaso can join the APC, the Party will not encounter much Problems to win future elections in the state.


Share this on WhatsApp