Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


A lot of people in the world today are good consumer of Eggs probably because of it’s nature and taste. Eggs is most time gotten from diary animal such as chicken or birds and it’s a good source of protein and nutrient.
Eggs can be Processed in different ways as the consumer may want it to be, it can be cooked, fried or consume Raw like that. Although it’s medically proven that eating Eggs consistently provide us important nutrient which may help build up the body in good health.
But one thing you should know is that, Eggs can be very harmful to the body if it’s been combine with some certain things. Unlike rice and yam, these combination is very good and it does not have any effect on human body system.
As a matter of fact, for you to live long in good health, there are groups of foods you should never eat together with Eggs this may be discuss bellow.
EGGS AND TEA
Many people eat eggs with tea without knowing that they are silently harming their body system.
Having eggs for breakfast, don’t drink tea at the same time. According to expert in food and Nutrition found that combining eggs with tea can reduce the amount of protein that we absorb by 17 percent. It is thought that compounds called polyphenols in tea can bind to protein in the eggs, stopping us absorbing it.
EGGS WITH ALCOHOL
For many years, eggs have been hailed as an easy and effective cure for a hangover. And that’s for a good reason. Eggs contain cysteine, a key amino acid that can help break down acetaldehyde, which is a toxin associated with alcohol metabolism and hangovers.
Please stop Consuming eggs together with alcohol because it can trigger abdominal pain which may lead to something else.
EGG WITH BANANA
In fact don’t even eat egg with any kinds of vegetable because it can harm your body system. Consuming these two things is a very wrong combinations which can make you sick or prevent digestion. Here are some of the vegetables you should avoid taking together with eggs. Starchy vegetables: potatoes, sweet potatoes, legumes, corn, and peas. High carb fruits banana pineapples, mangoes, and dried fruit. Grains, bread, pasta, quinoa, couscous, farro, buckwheat, and barley.
Please when you finish reading this article, Endeavour to share to the large society so that others can benefit from it too thanks.


Share this on WhatsApp