Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Onion is a widely used vegetable around the world. It is available all year round and adds flavor to a lot of meals such as soups, stew, porridge, and others. However, onions can also be eaten raw. Raw onions are high in vitamin C, sulphuric compounds, and flavonoids, making them extremely healthy for human consumption.
Below are 5 things that can happen if you eat raw onions every day.
1. It may lower the risk of cancer
Eating vegetables of the Allium genus like garlic and onions has been linked to a lower risk of certain cancers, including stomach and colorectal.
A review showed that people who consumed the highest amount of allium vegetables were 22% less likely to be diagnosed with stomach cancer than those who consumed the least amount.
2. It improves immunity

Everything revolves around immunity these days. The antioxidants present in onions can help you strengthen that too. According to a study, onion’s chemical composition is so strong that it helps in immune enhancement.
3. It lowers the risk of heart disease and stroke
Onions contain organic sulfur compounds. These compounds are the reason why onions have such a sharp, strong taste and smell.
Organic sulfur compounds help reduce the level of cholesterol in your body and may also help break down blood clots, lowering your risk for heart disease and stroke. You should eat onions raw rather than cooked to get the most sulfur compounds from them.
4. It improves digestion
The fiber in onions promotes good digestion and helps keep you regular. Additionally, onions contain a special type of soluble fiber called oligofructose, which promotes good bacteria growth in your intestines.
A study found that oligofructose may help prevent and treat types of diarrhea. The phytochemicals in onions that scavenge free radicals may also reduce your risk of developing gastric ulcers, according to the National Onion Association.
5. It may improve bone density

Including onions in the diet is associated with improved bone density. This may be because of their antioxidant properties, which reduce oxidative stress and appears to reduce bone loss.
A study looking at the effect on peri- and post-menopausal women reported that frequent onion consumption decreased the risk of hip fracture. A further study on middle-aged women showed onion juice consumption reduced bone loss and improved bone density.


Share this on WhatsApp