Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


According to NATIONAL DAILY reports, Special Adviser to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Political Matters, Babafemi Ojudu, has vowed to return to farm than support Bola Tinubu’s presidential ambition. Ojudu said this in an interview with a media entrepreneur, Chude Jideonwo, on Saturday. He insisted that Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo remains his preferred candidate.
Ojudu calls it principle, but it’s sensationalism. He won’t support Jagaban if Buhari endorses him. That’s something he said. Nigerians had thought Ojudu just preferred Osinbajo to Jagaban and not that he was politically allergic to Jagaban. So Buhari will endorse Jagaban, and Ojudu will campaign for Atiku. Well, Ojudu has made his mind known, but he must realize that while serving as Osinbajo’s political adviser certain political utterances would be deemed rascally.
ALSO READ: Osinbajo remains APC best candidate in 2023, says Ojudu
Because Tinubu is Osinbajo’s political benefactor and Ojudu shouldn’t leave the impression that the great men are at war. Nobody cares if Ojudu chooses to become another Bode George. Who can’t see his kinsman develop a feather he envies. But he should consider the effect of his utterances on principal. These utterances might destroy even the possibilities of Tinubu conceding to Osinbajo in the case of political maneuvering because of their utterances. All of them know Osinbajo can’t run without the political structure of BAT.
Although, Ojudu may actually and typically reflects who VP is with his utterances, who know? Can VP claim ignorance of his conduct and style? Let’s him not come to say, Ojudu is an adult and he is entitled to his rights and privileges! The world can see through his point man the bitterness in their camp if indeed he sent him or he acted for him. And finally, his frustration is anchored on the fact that his principal won’t run.
The VP media aide oftentimes has come out with various messages to debunk some activities credited to VP and 2023 Presidential election, the question is, where did this man get the gut to be running around for and on behalf of VP? Did he have a nod from the VP?
Is VP that timid to hide behind the scene for such a position? Could Ojudu’s frustration be because the VP refused to follow him on his self-seeking exercise for sustainability in Aso Rock? Is Ojudu not eminently qualified to run for the same office he is neck-deep in the campaign for VP?


Share this on WhatsApp