Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Workers under the platform of All Workers Convergence (AWC) have called on Nigerian workers to commence an indefinite sit-at-home protest against fuel scarcity, high cost of living and general insecurity in Nigeria from Monday 7th March, 2022 pending when the government is able to return the country to normalcy.
Convener of AWC, Comrade Andrew Emelieze, made this disclosure via a statement seen by Nationaldailyng.com on Friday in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital.
He said it is unimaginable that an oil producing nation would subject her citizens through this kind of ordeal currently being experienced by Nigerians.
READ ALSO: Treat fuel scarcity as in era of pandemic – Ex-PENGASSAN President
“There is no excuse for this fuel scarcity. Our people can no longer cope with the rising high cost of living. This torture is unbearable. We have suffered enough in Nigeria.
He explained that prices of goods and services have increased, the development which is making it difficult for many people to survive, adding that the federal government does not have any excuse to justify the ongoing fuel scarcity in the country.
He said, “Daily, our problems are being compounded and it is obvious that we are being led astray. The current fuel scarcity has led to untold sufferings in Nigeria. The price of everything has increased and it is becoming very difficult for us to survive.
“As a working-class people, there is no way our poor wage can take us home and it is now almost impossible for us to transport ourselves to work. We, therefore, call on the government to immediately ensure the availability of petrol on or before Sunday 6th March, and also revert to the N165 per litre else Nigeria workers will not be able to go to work again.
READ ALSO: Fuel scarcity worsens in Lagos, product now sells for  N250 to N500 per litre
“We, therefore, call on Nigerian workers to commence an indefinite sit at home in protest against fuel scarcity, high cost of living and general insecurity in Nigeria from Monday 7th March 2022 pending when the government is able to return us to normalcy.
“Our people have been killed enough. We have suffered enough. We can no longer cope. Our destiny is in our hands. Let us all start mobilizing each other. Labour, civil societies, students and our youths are called upon to take charge of this struggle and ensure street protest nationwide.
“Our tomorrow is at stake, if truly we care for a better Nigeria, let us all continue to take radical action to rescue our nation from backwardness. Let us all sit at home, let the protest begin”.


Share this on WhatsApp