Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


As President Muhammadu Buhari gradually comes to the end of his tenure, the fight on who to replace him has become the major discussion on most social and print media and in political space. Presidential aspirants have continued to make a series of consultations and seek endorsement from stakeholders in and out of the country. Notable among the aspirants is the national leader of the All Progressives Congress APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
It should be recalled that some few months ago, Tinubu publicly declared his intention to run for the presidency in 2023 after he visited President Buhari in Aso Rock. Since then, he has been very busy making a series of consultations to strengthen and widen his political structure. But one of the major challenges he is tackling is that he is not the only one vying for the same exalted position as the number one citizen of the country. It may interest you to note that the current Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has allegedly indicated his interest to contest too.
As the struggle for presidency continues, it was gathered from a reliable source that the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu presidential campaign has said it is not bothered by the rumored presidential ambition of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. It should be recalled that there was an exclusive report on Monday that Osinbajo had informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his presidential ambition. Even though his intention has not been made public, many groups have been promoting his candidature.
Political allies and support groups of Tinubu said the former Lagos State governor is not bothered by Osinbajo’s ambition. The highest decision-making body of the APC in Lagos, the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC), said Tinubu remains its choice. It will interest you to note that the leader of the GAC, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, said the council has endorsed Tinubu as well as recommended him to Nigerians as a genius in statecraft.
The Tinubu camp has every reason to be troubled by the alleged presidential ambition of Osinbajo because political analysts have opined that the VP is the most suitable aspirant to fly the flag of the All Progressives Congress in 2023. More so, Osinbajo performed excellently when he was acting president and understands the pains of ordinary Nigerians. Many believe that Osinbajo’s personality is reputed with humility and respect for rule of law.
It is believed that Osinbajo has been prepared with deep knowledge and cerebral intelligence to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari as Nigerian President. They believe that he will deploy his ideas and best practices to lift the great expectations of Nigerians. His style, character, and delivery pattern are evidenced in his open-mindedness and creativity, self-esteem, flexibility, responsibility, dependability, patience & tenacity.


Share this on WhatsApp