Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Here are 4 common bathroom mistakes you make that can kill you. Check It all to be able to abstain from it.
The toilet is one of the most used parts but least taken care of. Bathroom etiquette is essential for healthy living space so here are 7 common mistakes you probably make in the bathroom. There are some of the things you thought you were doing right but trust me after going through this list, you’ll be surprised.
According to Charles Gerba, a microbiologist from the University of Arizona, Fecal matter and urine can fly as far as six feet away from the toilet bowl during each flush. Close the lid before you flush to keep those gross particles in your toilet and out of the air.
1. Sitting on the toilet too long
People tend to use their toilet time to books, magazines or scroll through social media. Sitting on the ceramic throne for too long can cause haemorrhoids because the seated position places a lot of pressure on the veins in your lower rectum which can swell or bulge.
The most common symptom of haemorrhoids is rectal bleeding but you may experience itchiness or discomfort around the rectal area. This is just a quick reminder that the toilet isn’t the place for personal time.
2. Keeping your toothbrush too close to the toilet
Toothbrushes should be kept about four feet away from the toilet because, as noted earlier faecal matter and urine can fly from the toilet bowl when you flush and live the lid open. It should not also be placed on the sink due to splashes from soap and dirty water.
3. Not washing your hands long enough
According to the CDC, all it takes is twenty seconds to give your hands a proper scrubbing with soap and water. 95 per cent of people don’t wash their hands long enough to effectively kill germs based on a Michigan state university study with the average hand-washing time of only six seconds.
4. Forgetting to clean your toothbrush
Researchers have found that about 10million germs of icky bacteria like E.coli on the average toothbrush. It’s important to rinse your toothbrush well after each use and occasionally soak it in vinegar for about 30 minutes to get rid of any leftover bacteria, making your toothbrush replacements every three months.


Share this on WhatsApp