Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The leading presidential aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, may have shifted from nationwide consultations to embarking on money politics to influence votes in the 2023 general elections. This is not unconnected with the sudden distribution of JAMB registration form to prospective university admission seekers across the country by one of the support groups of the APC national leader campaigning for his presidential ambition.
The Tinubu Support group under the aegis of Bola Tinubu Education Support program, commenced the distribution of free JAMB forms to 5,000 candidates across the country. The support group explained that the aim “is to curb youth restiveness by providing educational support to young school leavers.”
The Bola Tinubu Education Support program highlighted: “Lack of opportunities for many youths to further their education beyond secondary school level is also identified as a major cause of the growing number of unemployed youths.
“The Tinubu support group believes youth restiveness will be greatly reduced if more young people get access to tertiary education in the country.
“This is why it is stepping up to bridge this gap by distributing JAMB registration forms to secondary school leavers across the three Senatorial districts in Niger state.”
However, the support group have over the years not known to have floated a foundation or lobby governments for free education at the level the group has resorted to provide interventions for the youths. The members are also not known to be engaged in such education program outside the season of electioneering politicking. Apparently, some stakeholders in the polity were of the view that such practice is “vote buying in advance” for the 2023 general elections.
Meanwhile, the national coordinator of the Bola Tinubu Education Support program, Abubakar Kuso, kicked off the momentary political largess in Kontogora, Niger State. Kuso disclosed that Niger will receive 200 of the 5,000 forms being distributed across the country.
The support group further promised full scholarship to the candidate that scores the highest mark in the UME examination.
Share this on WhatsApp