Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Bukola Saraki can mean well for the country. His ambition can be an avenue to lift Nigeria up and reshape the crumbling foundation in the country. But his presidential bid has some key obstacles .
He fought hard in 2018 against Mr. Aminu Tambuwal, who came second and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who eventually represented the opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party. Now Saraki may face a far bigger challenge this time around.
The main and first constraint to his ambition is the national chairmanship of the PDP. The fact that Mr. Iyorchia Ayu is from north-central region can be an obstacle to the presidential bid of Mr. Bukola Saraki. In fact it will be difficult for him to convince the party.
The PDP chose its national chairman to replace Mr. Uche Secondus in October, 2021. And it was a struggle among the political forces in the PDP. Saraki would have preferred that the chairman is from another zone other than north-central.
However, the PDP caucus from north decided that the chairman should come from Benue State. Other states in the region are Niger, Saraki’s Kwara, Nassarawa, Plateau, and Kogi State. At the end of the day, Mr. Ayu emerged. And that will affect Saraki.
ALSO READ: Tinubu needs the support of this PDP governor in South South to realize his ambition
It is true that politics is dynamic and anything can happen if Saraki works seriously well. However, it is somehow unimaginable that the PDP will be so magnanimous to choose both the chairman and presidential candidate from the same zone.
The second matter or limit is that Kwara State is (perhaps unfortunately) under the All Progressives Congress (APC). It should be one of the yardsticks that a presidential hopeful should ensure that his state (of origin) is under the PDP.
Even if it’s not stated, a politician isn’t that powerful if his state isn’t under the party he wants to use for the presidency. Other aspirants seem lucky. Sokoto State is under the PDP as well as Adamawa.
This can give Mr. Aminu Tambuwal and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar an edge over Mr. Bukola Saraki. And then it is therefore a limit to Saraki’s presidential bid in 2023.


Share this on WhatsApp