Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Weight loss has to do with conscious or unconscious efforts to reduce our body weight, this is to say that we can embark on this venture voluntarily with our minds made up or it can happen to us against our will. When one loses weight without any effort whatsoever to do so, it calls for concern and the person should watch his/her diet and daily routine, it might be due to stress as a result of work, it might be as a result of not eating enough foods that help add calories and gain weight, it can also be due to an illness.
In our world today many people want to gain weight just as many want to lose it, it is left for you to choose what to do in order to achieve your goal, some people take to having special diets which help them lose weight and this a good idea as it is a natural way to go about weight loss.
In the course of seeking out weight loss, you should be mindful of what you eat just so that you don’t put all your efforts to waste, consuming foods that are well known to help gain weight when you’re trying to lose it is equal to doing nothing at all, so you should be mindful of the five foods that I’ll mention below and stop eating then if you’re trying to lose weight.
1. French Fries
French fries are otherwise known as fried potato or potato chips, it can be prepared by deep frying which has to do with the use of large amount of oil, by now you should know that fat and oils don’t help you lose weight, rather they help in weight gain. Again, potato is a starchy food which is rich in carbohydrate so they usually add good calories to those who eat them. From the look of things, it is clear that French fries are foods that help with weight gain, so if you’re trying to lose weight then you should avoid them.
2. Rice
Rice is a carbohydrate food and it also contains a good amount of starch, it is good for consumption and it is nutritious but you can’t be eating a lot of rice when you’re trying to lose weight, things might not work out just fine. Since rice is rich in carbohydrates it will add weight to those who consume it. This is to say that if you’re looking to lose weight then you should avoid eating rice.
3. Red Meat
Red meat refers to meat the have red colour when they are raw, they include beef, pork, goat, lamb, etc. These meats are good for muscle building and weight gain, how can someone be working hard to lose weight and still eat red meats? It doesn’t even sound right.
4. Milk
Milk is a good dairy product that has a lot of nutrients, one of them being calcium, there are other good nutrients that we can get from milk like carbohydrates, fats, and protein.
Milk is known to help in muscle gain, not only that but it is also known to be very effective for weight gain. This goes contrary to the aim of losing weight so why not stay clear from milk and focus on other foods which don’t help you gain weight.
5. Dark Chocolate
Dark chocolates are known to help with weight gain rather than weight loss as they contain high amounts of calories, this will help those who need to gain weight, not those who wish to lose it.

At the end of the day, you should be well aware of foods that help with weight gain and those that help with weight loss, it will help you filter your diet to suit what you are trying to achieve.


Share this on WhatsApp