Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

 
Diabetes is a major illness in Nigeria and Africa, and it has resulted in the deaths of millions of people all over the world. Sugar is good for the body because it helps to provide enough energy and vitamins, but it is also bad and affects the body system when it is high, and it can lead to diabetes type 1 or 2 and other health problems. The blood sugar level rises when the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood supply becomes too much. If it rises to this stage, it will interfere with the action of insulin, which aids in blood control. It regulates the amount of sugar in the blood and how it flows. Anyone with diabetes is commonly thought to have an excess of sugar in their blood. Most people are unaware that diabetes does not grow in the body as a result of an excessive sugar intake, but rather as a result of inadequate insulin output to allow the proper conversion.
Excessive consumption of sugary foods, on the other hand, contributes to its growth.
Diabetes can be easily managed in its early stages of growth, and if caught early enough, it can even be reversed with careful treatment.
When your blood sugar level is elevated, you can experience the following symptoms:
1. Fatigue
Feeling drained is one of the most common and early signs of high blood sugar. If you’re feeling tired, particularly if you’ve consumed too many carbs (carbohydrates) or sugary foods, you should see your doctor and get your blood levels checked. You must be extremely cautious and aware of what you put into your body. This can also happen in people who don’t have diabetes, particularly those who eat a lot of sugary foods.
2. Urinating on a regular basis
This is another serious symptom of diabetes; if you notice a change in the way you urinate during the day, particularly if you urinate excessively, you should seek medical attention right away. This is due to the fact that too much sugar in the blood causes regular urination.
3. Headaches
Humans experience frequent headaches as a result of dehydration; but, as the sugar level rises, you can experience repeated headaches as well, so if you are experiencing recurring headaches, you can contact your doctor to determine the cause.
4. Blurred Vision
Sugar has an effect on the eyes, which is why people with diabetes sometimes wear glasses to help them see better. Excess sugar stuck in the lens of the eye causes a blurred effect, impairing vision. Please don’t ignore this if you start to notice it because it could lead to complete blindness and other health issues.
5. Dental Issues
If you consume too much sugar, your blood and sliver will be high in sugar, causing a variety of dental issues such as tooth decay, gum disease, cavities, gingivitis, gum disease, swollen and bleeding gums, and so on. If you find any changes in your dental organs, you should seek medical attention immediately. Please be aware that there are additional symptoms of an elevated blood sugar level. Signs include joint pain, inability to walk properly, and non-healing injuries, among others.
Always keep an eye on your health, and if you find any changes in your body system, seek medical help right away.


Share this on WhatsApp