PDP Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Iyorcha Ayu, on Monday said that the only organic political party in Nigeria is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ayu addressing PDP members in Edo State on Thursday urged them to work together in the interest of the party in the state.
Ayu had listened to the threat to the of the deputy governor that the PDP faction led by Governor Godwin Obaseki would be leaving the PDP to another party, complaining that since they defected in bloc from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP, they have been cheated in the party.
Governor Obaseki had spoken about the failure of the APC government and suffering of Nigerians under the APC. The governor had re-energised the PDP members for the rescue Nigeria mission in 2023.
Iyorcha Ayu had told the PDP members the history of the origin of the PDP. He narrated how late Governor Abubakar Rimi of Kano State met late Dr. Adamu Ciroma on the formation of a strong political party that will be difficult to be overthrown by the military when democracy is restored to the country after the years of military regime.
Ayu listed the other elder statesmen who joined the league of the new political movement to include late Governor Solomon Lar of Plateau State, late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, late Chief Tony Anenih; then, the young generation elite like himself, Prof. Jerry Gana, etc. the outcome was the formation of the PDP.
Ayu also took the PDP members in Edo how internal crisis has denied the party in government election victory over the years in Edo State. He narrated how such crisis first affected the PDP, then, the APC later played into it and became a victim in losing the control of the state government also. Ayu warned that the lingering crisis in the Edo PDP, and the threat to leave the party, will lead to the PDP losing the control of the state government in the next election.
Iyorcha Ayu assured party members that the PDP national secretariat has already intervened to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state. He said that in the next two weeks, the people will get the result of the mediation of the national leadership.
Share this on WhatsApp