Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Biafra Nations League (BNL) has cautioned the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Police Force to desist from activities that would threaten security in Bakassi Peninsula, the border zone of Nigeria and Cameroon. BNL cautioned that its leaders are not afraid of the Nigerian security operatives, as the League raised alarm of security threats in the Bakassi Peninsula, the operational base of Biafra Nations League. BNL alleged that Nigerian security operatives are going from house to house searching for the National Leader of the Biafra Nations League, Princewill Richards, and other senior officials of BNL who hosted Ambazonia fighters in the Peninsula for days.
Chairman of the Senior Officials of Biafra Nations League, Godstime Ntukidem, alerted that a joint team of police and army has been combing the neighbourhood of Ikang and Ekpri Ikang in Bakassi Local Government Area, Cross River State, moving from one guest house to the other harassing the management in their desperate manhunt of BNL leaders, who they suspect may be lodging there.
Ntukidem, Chairman of the Senior Officials of Biafra Nations League, revealed that the League moved the venue of their meeting with separatists in Southern Cameroon to the ceded territory in Cameroon Republic for convenience.  Ntukidem also said that BNL leader who the Nigerian army and police are searching for is not in the region at the moment, saying that Princewill Richards is currently in a neighboring country in the Gulf of Guinea, holding consultations. Ntukidem stated that the security operatives are engaged in futile search for the BNL leaders in Ikang and the environs.
The Chairman of the Senior Officials of Biafra Nations League asserted that BNL leaders are not afraid of the Nigerian Army and Police, insisting that they would not succumb harassment and intimidation. Ntukidem maintained
that BNL is fighting a just cause without terrorizing communities and natives of the areas they operate.
Ntukidem said that BNL has established  self-defense volunteers to enforce the embargo on oil exploration, including shutdown of operations soon.
Share this on WhatsApp