Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


One of the daughters of late MKO Abiola whose name is Rinsola on Thursday came under heavy criticisms on social media following the announcement of the position she is vying for in the forthcoming National Convention of the All Progressive Congress, APC.
She had taken to her Twitter handle and informed teaming followers that she will be throwing her scarf for the position of National Youth Leader of APC. However, the ambition didn’t go down well with many of them as they dragged her over the cruel statement she had made about the ruling party in the past.
The APC which is currently having a leadership crisis has, a few days ago scheduled March 26 for its national convention. It had earlier chosen February 26 before it got shifted to another date after citing unresolved issues that resulted from congresses held nationwide last year.
However, the new date might still hit the rock due to emerging concerns over the sacking of the party’s national caretaker chairman, Mala Mai Buni. It would be recalled while the Yobe state governor was away in Dubai, his Niger State counterpart, Governor Bello Sani had stormed National Secretariat and presided over the APC-CECPC meeting.
He further pruned down the list of the convention sub-committee earlier released by Buni, released the adopted zoning formula, and called for an NEC meeting!
While confirming the removal of Buni during an interview, Governor Nasir El-rufai had claimed that President Buhari in support of about 19 governors installed Sani to continue acting!
Why MKO Abiola Was Being Dragged
She once left APC and accused the party of not being Youth friendly and democratic. This is the main reason she was being slammed on social media. This can be read on a page published by the Vanguard.
While leaving the party in 2018, Rinsola had stated in her letter of resignation from the party that her desire to pursue youth liberation on the APC platform was met with resistance and a stern warning to steer clear of mainstream politics, especially concerning running for any elective office.
She had further lamented that the ruling party was only sloganeering on youth participation in active politics.


Share this on WhatsApp