Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveU.S.-Africa Trade Council appoints Aina as advisory board member.
 
The U.S.-Africa Trade Council, United States of America, has announced the appointment of Amb. Olusiji Aina as a member of its Advisory Board.
The council made the announcement in a statement issued by Mounir El Bouamri, Regional Director, and obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday in Lagos.
The statement said in this role, Aina would provide leadership and overall guidance and direction, in the programmes, policy and strategic efforts to improve the trade traffic between US and Africa.
It said: ” The board that we have is truly exemplary in their individual and combined extensive expertise in business, commerce, academics, government and international relations.
“Aina is a Development Economist and Impact Investing Specialist.
“He is a strategist with professional competency in building high impact market relevant skills for economic development, creating employment and promoting economic growth in Africa.”
According to the statement, he has over 20 years’ extensive professional work experience spanning strategy, financial inclusion, renewable energy, project management, agribusiness, enterprise development, human capital development.
The statement added that Aina had 10 years of extensive banking experience in Institutional and Commercial Banking.
“He is a Chartered Development Finance
Analyst (CDFA), Chartered Global Investment Analysts (CGIA), Associate, Chartered Institute of Economist of Nigeria (ICEN), Fellow Institute of Information Management (FIIM).
“Aina is a research fellow at final dissertation stage with Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Development Economics at UNICAF University.
“He has attended several leadership programmes globally and he speaks annually at Global Youth Economic Opportunities (GYEO) in Washington DC,” it said.
The statement said Aina has  received several global recognition awards for outstanding humanitarian work.
“He currently serves on board of several organisations nationally and internationally among which are Impact Amplifier Foundation, Cognity Advisory, African Intellectual Resource Salus Trust and several others.
“He is also a functional member in the Human Capital development, and Financial Inclusion and Financial Markets Thematic Groups of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG).
“Aina is the Co-Chairman, Kogi State Economic Council, Board member – Kogi State Investment Promotion Council, and member of Kogi State Youth Development Commission,” it added.
It said that the Advisory Board, would, inter alia, advice on programmes and organisational planning, and advocacy for public policy to protect private sector businesses, across the U.S and Africa trade axis.
Share this on WhatsApp