Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Ever since former Lagos State Governor, Ahmed Tinubu declared his interest to join the 2023 presidential race, both the political landscape and the mass media have been abuzz with swirling waves of controversies concerning his presidential ambition.
For his legion of die-hard admirers and supporters, now is the time for the gong-clanging tolls. They insist that APC, including president Muhammadu Buhari owe Tinubu their supports in his 2023 presidential ambition due to his major contribution to President Buhari’s Presidential ambition in 2015, which saw to the success of the party as the ruling party.
Nevertheless, some deductions and analysis from a clear thought suggest that Tinubu’s gesture and major contribution towards the party’s victory in the 2015 election has been reciprocated by APC, hence does not owe Tinubu its presidential ticket.
How APC Paid Off Tinubu
After Tinubu was denied the chance to become President Buhari’s running mate in 2015, he was accorded the honour to nominate a candidate as Buhari’s running mate.
Though President Muhammadu Buhari was the rightful person in the position to choose whomever he wants as his running mates in 2015, he never hesitated to honour Tinubu with the privilege to choose his running mate for him.
On this note, one could infer that Tinubu has been paid off for by APC, as he was honoured with the privilege to pick Osinbajo whom he nominated as President Muhammadu Buhari’s running mate in the 2019 election.

Recall that in similar scenario which played some years when Atiku contested in the 2007 presidential election under the platform of Action Congress party, Atiku refused to make Tinubu his running mate. Unlike Buhari and APC, Atiku didn’t give Tinubu the privilege to choose a replacement like the way President Buhari and APC did in 2015. Tinubu was denied both privileges irrespective of his contributions to the formation of the party.
In this regard, it can be argued that the privilege given to Tinubu to choose Buhari’s running mate in 2015 could be described as a medium that was improvised as a replacement to the idea of being Buhari’s running mate, which would’ve been a supposed means the party wanted to used in reciprocating his contributions to the party.
On a moral stance, if there’s anyone that is to be in-depth to Tinubu, then it should be Osinbajo, whom he appointed to replace him and not APC. So contrary to the claims of some Tinubu’s political loyalists who claim that APC owes Tinubu its presidential ticket, APC has paid off Tinubu and doesn’t own him its presidential ticket.


Share this on WhatsApp