Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The embattled and suspended super cop, DCP Abba Kyari may be facing further charges as a huge sum of money believed to have been gotten illegally has been allegedly traced to his bank account.
Similarly, investigations also revealed that one of his co-defendants, ACP Sunday Ubua may have also received some unexplainable funds in his accounts.
National Daily gathered up to a combined N4.2bn has been traced to the accounts of the suspects based on investigations been carried out by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).
A breakdown of the figures has it that not less than N1.4bn got into Kyari’s account while he was commander of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) while Ubua received up to N2.8bn to his eight bank accounts.
Abba Kyari is facing eight counts of conspiracy, obstruction, and dealing in cocaine, and other related offences at the Federal High Court, Abuja.
ALSO READ: More trouble for Abba Kyari as victim demands enforcement of N48m judgment debt
A source quoted by The Punch says the NDLEA reasonably believes the money might be connected to drug trafficking and other illegal activities by Kyari and his accomplices.
The source said, “You will recall that the NDLEA is investigating an allegation that Kyari and his team seized a large consignment of tramadol in a warehouse at Amuwo Odofin in Lagos. The consignment was worth about N3bn.
“The IRT under Kyari’s command seized these drugs and they are believed to have sold the consignment to a cartel afterwards. It was around the time of this seizure that Kyari’s deputy received a deposit of N2.664bn in his personal bank account. Out of this money, he purchased FBN Insurance shares worth about N100m.”
Meanwhile, it is understood that the NDLEA has written a letter to the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami seeking his approval to confiscate properties and assets belonging to Abba Kyari.
The letter was said to have been written last week (March 7).
Share this on WhatsApp