Tpl Alabi Munta, Hon Adekunle Rafiu,High Chief Jimoh Olatunji Adigun JP, Chief Haolat Awindere(otun Iyalode) Chief Dayo Adejumobi,National President Saki parapò, Rashidat Aliu and Ààrẹ Sesan Onibode (Ààrẹ isembaye of saki
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A foremost traditional ruler in Oyo state, His Royal Majesty, Oba (Dr) Khalid Oyeniyi Olabisi Oyedepo III, the Okere of Sakiland has bestowed the traditional title of Aare Atayese and Yeye Aare Atayese on Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and his wife, Tamunominini as part of the celebration of this year annual Beere Festival.
High Chief Jimoh Adigun, Chairman of the 2022 Beere Festival Committee announced this at a press conference to herald the beginning of the Beere Festival scheduled for March 8, 2022 at the ancient town of Saki.
Speaking on why the Governor and his wife were selected for the traditional title, High Chief Adigun, who is also the Baale of Sepeteri of Saki, said it is in recognition of the governor’s immense contribution to the infrastructural development of the town and many other towns in Oke-Ogun area of Oyo state.
READ ALSO: Why Governor Seyi Makinde may dump PDP and join APC soon
Governor Makinde deserves the title because of his visionary leadership and unwavering commitment to repositioning Oke-Ogun and Oyo state through the provisions of roads and other amenities in the area since he became governor in 2019.
“The governor has earned himself a place in the heart of future Oke-Ogun generations, who would be the ultimate beneficiaries of his sacrifices.
In his remark, Hon. Adekunle Rafiu, a former Minority leader in the Oyo state House of Assembly and member of the planning committee thanked the governor for repositioning Oke-Ogun, urging him not to relent in his efforts until the area becomes the centre of a progressives and industrialized zone in Oyo state.
Hon Rafiu, who represented the revered Okere of Saki on the Beere Festival Planning Committee said the festival is an annual event in Sakiland where the monarch will bless all his subjects and the subject will also reaffirm their allegiance to him.
According to him, Beere Festival, though an ancient festival in Sakiland, is not about religion, but celebration of culture and traditions.
“Our revered monarch, His Royal Majesty, Oba Khalid Olabisi Oyedepo III revived the celebration of the Beere Festival after many years of dormancy as part of his effort to promote culture, tradition of his people and also to develop the immense tourism potential of Sakiland.”
READ ALSO: Cleric reveals new gang-up against Governor Seyi Makinde
Earlier in his welcome address, Chief Festus Adejumobi, National President, Saki Parapo, described Beere Festival as a befitting cultural heritage of Sakiland that has even attracted communities from neighboring Benin, Togo and other West African Sub region
Chief Adejumobi explained that the Okere of Saki with his foresight knew the economic benefits of the festival hence its revival to boost the economic activities in the ancient town and the state at large.
According to him, Beere festival celebration would also bring peace, promote harmonious relationships and popularize the community and bring it to limelight in the world of culture and tourism.
Meanwhile, the royal father called on the people of Oke-Ogun and Oyo state in general to support the present administration in the state by paying their taxes regularly, stressing that taxation remained the most efficient and sure way to give the people good government.
Similarly, Secretary of the planning committee and Chief Consultant, Beere Festival, Oyewale Oyatunde emphasised on unique celebration of the historical 9-day festival which offers opportunity for cooperate organisations to catch in on potential of the festival.
Other members of this year’s Beere Festival Planning Committee are: Alhaja Tijani Rafat, the yeye Oge of Sakiland; Chief Adenike Awidere, Otun-Iyalode Okere of Sakiland; Chief Sesan Onibode, Are Isenbaye of Sakiland.
Share this on WhatsApp