Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


In 2023, the PDP may be able to take control of two northern states. It all depends on how the opposition party takes advantage of the chance that will arise. And it will be a huge benefit to the party.
The PDP controls only five out of the fourteen states in the northern part of the country, to put it bluntly. However, in 2023, the share can be increased by at least two. And the PDP will gradually reclaim full power as the north’s hegemon.
(1) Kano State
Kano may be available for the PDP. It is apparent that the ruling All Progressives Congress does not understand itself, and the state chapter of the party could face the same fate as the southern Rivers State branch. It also occurred in Zamfara State, which is not far away.
In Kano State, the primary internal upheaval in the APC is between former governor Ibrahim Shekarau and current governor Umar Ganduje. They are fighting for the APC’s soul in Kano State by standing on each other’s necks.
In the courtroom, Mr. Shekarau and his factional APC had triumphed. Last year, a federal high court in Abuja found his factional congresses to be legitimate. He has defeated Umar Ganduje in at least two legal proceedings.
ALSO READ: 2023 APC Vice-Presidential Candidate: 2 reasons why Governor Simon Lalong may emerge
This exposes the Kano State chapter to internal strife and disintegration. Remember that the APC, although being in power, struggled to win the Kano State gubernatorial election in 2019. The question of leadership will now force the party to suffer much more and split.
As a result, the APC may lose control of the state. And when that happens, the PDP will be there to take the chance. Meanwhile, Mr. Aminu Wali and Rabiu Kwankwaso must focus on the People’s Democratic Party in Kano.
(2) Kwara state
Mr. Bukola Saraki, as a presidential candidate, can’t afford to keep his home state under APC control. Of course, Saraki will do everything he can in 2023 to prevent the ruling party from gaining control of Kwara State. He may now be in a position to lead the PDP to power in Ilorin.
Saraki’s task of leading the PDP to victory in Kwara State has become much easier this time. He might use the issue within the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State to his advantage. Mr. Lai Mohammed, the information minister, and Abdulrazak Abdulrahman, the state governor, do not have a close connection.
They’ve been working in tandem, and neither of them is ready to give up control to the other. In any case, Mr. Lai Mohammed is critical to the APC’s triumph in Kwara State.
Kwara State will be in the hands of the People’s Democratic Party sooner rather than later if he withdraws his support or continues to work in a different direction.


Share this on WhatsApp