Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love76 federal tertiary institutions benefit from FG’s road projects – Fashola
 
Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Raji Fashola, says 76 federal tertiary institutions have benefitted from the Federal Government’s intervention in internal road network projects.
Fashola made this known on Tuesday while handing over the newly-rehabilitated 1.2-kilometer road constructed within the premises of Federal College of Agriculture, Moor Plantation, Ibadan, to the institution’s management.
The minister, who was represented by the Federal Controller of Works in Oyo State, Mr Kayode Ibrahim, said that government had successfully intervened in internal road networks of 46 institutions, with 29 handed over as at 2021.
“We now have another 17 ready to be handed over, while we are currently attending to internal road networks in 30 other institutions across the country, making a total of 76,” he said.
The minister noted that while lots of works still needed to be done in many sectors of the nation’s economy, including education, the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration had stepped up to lead the process of getting the work done.
He said that the initiative of tertiary institutions’ internal road projects was consistent with the government’s progressive ideal of improving the human condition.
Fashola asserted that the gap in the nation’s infrastructural needs was steadily being bridged by a gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction of major highways, adding that it had now reached the schools
“It is not debatable that quality of education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment,” he said.
Fashola urged students to acknowledge the significance of the projects through renewed enthusiasm, especially with regards to attending classes.
He highlighted the scope of works done on the Federal College of Agriculture’s internal road networks project to include: flood control, stone pitching and lane marking, among others.
In his remarks, the Controller of Works said that Oyo State was receiving good attention from the federal government, as it was well captured in the road infrastructure development of the present administration.
Ibrahim listed some of the federal road projects currently receiving attention across the state to include: Iseyin– Saki; Igboho–Sepeteri; Iseyin–Alaga-Okaka-Baasi; Ogbomoso-Igbeti; Oyo–Aawe– Iwo; Igboho-Igbeti, Ibadan-Ile-Ife-Ilesha and Oyo-Ogbomoso.
He said that government was making efforts to address the road infrastructure deficit across the country despite the scarce resources.
Earlier, the Provost of the college, Dr Elizabeth Augustus, appreciated the federal government for the project, saying that the rehabilitated road had indeed improved accessibility and ease of movement within the institution.
Augustus added that the road, now named “Centenary Road”, had further added to the aesthetics of the college premises, especially as it coincided with the centenary anniversary celebrations of the institution.
Dr Titus Ilori and Mr Faruk Adedoyin, who both spoke on behalf of the college staffers and students, commended the federal government for counting the school worthy of benefiting from the road projects in its tertiary institutions.
The duo, however, pleaded with government to do more in the area of infrastructural development in order to further enhance teaching and learning in the institution.
Share this on WhatsApp