Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Nigerian students under the umbrella of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Zone D, South West, has given pay TV giant, MultiChoice Nigeria, a 7-day ultimatum to reverse recent increases on its DStv and GOtv packages.
The students who issued the warning in statement by John Alao, NANS South-West Deputy Co-coordinator and Opeoluwa Awoyinfa, its Public Relations Officer (PRO), urged President Muhammadu Buhari to compel the company to adopt the pay-as-you-view billing system.
Recall that MultiChoice Nigeria, the Nigerian subsidiary of MultiChoice Africa, owner of DStv and GOtv, announced an increase in its subscription rates, blaming it on the rising inflation and cost of business operations.
But student leaders described the increase as exploitative and asked for immediate reversal.
READ ALSO: MultiChoice increases prices of GOtv and DStv packages
“We hereby give 7 days’ ultimatum to MultiChoice Digital Satellite Television (DSTV) to reverse their plan of increasing their tariffs and also yield to the call of Nigerians and also implementing PAY AS YOU VIEW tariffs or else we shall be left with no other option but to lock up all offices of DSTV until our demands are meant which is the mind of all Nigerians,” a statement by NANS said.
 “This is the time to call on the National Broadcasting Commission to go back to the commission act to regulate the ownership, activities and operations of Direct Broadcast Satellite Service Providers.
“It’s obvious that users are being placed on a fixed monthly tariff plan unlike what is obtainable outside Nigeria. The record shows that Nigeria constitutes over 45 percent of DSTV’s global market share; yet over 50 percent of users are not enjoying what they are paying for due to a series of engagements just to make a living and also due to lack of constant power supply.
“We are aware that DSTV operates a system of PAY AS YOU GO tariffs in other countries but chose to be inhumane and has a hatred for Nigerians. As the Leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students in Southwest; we see this to be unfair and sardonic and also an act to keep exploiting Nigerians.
READ ALSO: Tax default: PwC faults TAT’s order against MultiChoice
Also speaking, the Deputy Coordinator said, “For so long, MultiChoice Digital Satellite Television (DSTV) has ignored complaints by Nigeria user’s and Nigeria Communication Commission have not been showing concern through the Minister for Communication.
“We are ready to take the bull by the horns as Nigerians will not welcome any increment in tariff but the Implementation of PAY AS YOU VIEW tariff by MultiChoice Digital Satellite Television (DSTV).
“We will never allow any policy or decision by any government, private organisations or person that may want to add to the present hardship and hunger already unleashed on Nigerians.

Share this on WhatsApp