Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA relative of the late Oluwabamise Ayanwola, the lasy kidnapped on Feb. 26 in a Lagos Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) bus and later found dead some days later, has stated the reason her family rejected the autopsy date police gave.
Mr Pelumi Ayanwola disclosed this on Friday while speaking with journalists at Right House, Adeniji Jones Street in Ikeja, Lagos State.
He said that the family rejected the invitation because of the short notice.
“We rejected it because we felt that such time was not enough for us to gather the family members to witness it and we also deserve to invite our own pathologist because we want fairness.”
He said that Gov. Sanwo-Olu spoke with his father on the phone but that his presence in the house would have calmed all nerves.
“I trust him but he will not be the one to conduct the autopsy, his people will give him the report, he trusted them but we don’t.”
He said that without autopsy, the evidence was clear regarding what led to the untimely death of his sister.
According to him, the security of Nigerians is not important anymore.
“It is a neglect of duty to allow BRT buses  to operate and be transporting passengers without security features installed in them;  no Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras installed inside them to record happenings while in transit.”
He said that Bamise was in possession of some materials which could not be found after she had been allegedly murdered.
“Where is Bamise’s bag that contained her phone, my wife and son’s cloths and other materials.
“Where are the cloths she was wearing on that fateful day.
“Even without the autopsy, all the culprits can easily be apprehended.”
He said that somebody who introduced himself  as an official of the state government called his mother  and was asking her when Bamise would  be buried.
“Why is the state so in a haste to bury the remains of my sister, that is immature.
“How can we bury her when justice has not been served?”
The family lawyer, Mr  Ayo Ademiluyi,  said that  they rejected the autopsy because it would be conducted by  pathologists that would be appointed by the Lagos State Government.
“We received an invitation from police that we should come for autopsy a day before it would be performed.
“We rejected it because it will only be conducted by the appointed officials of Lagos State Government alone.
“Lagos State is a party in this case, they cannot be a judge in their own case, they can  only be witnesses or observers.
“It is better for them to invite pathologists that are neutral in this case, ” he said.
Ademiluyi urged the police and the state government to give them two weeks for them to assemble their own team.
Share this on WhatsApp