Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveVice President Yemi  Osinbajo SAN on Wednesday pronounced the charisma and virtues of Pastor Enoch Adeboye, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in celebration of his 80th birthday anniversary.
Osinbajo in a statement he personally signed on Wednesday, expressed that as Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) clocks 80, a unique lesson for all and sundry remains his humility, integrity, and exemplary behaviour despite his huge achievements. according to Vice President
Prof. Osinbajo in a tribute on behalf of himself and his wife, remarked that the leader of the RCCG (a church with representation in over 198 countries and territories around the world) has impacted many lives and overseen unprecedented growth of the church, yet these achievements have not affected his behaviour.
Osinbajo’s tribute reads:
“Dolapo and I are honoured to write this tribute to Daddy on his 80th Birthday.
“Very few leaders will ever have the geographical and spiritual reach of influence that Pastor E.A. Adeboye has. He is neither the Pope nor the leader of the free world, but he heads a denomination that, since his assumption of office as its General Overseer, has established churches in over 198 countries and territories of the world.
“He was, as early as 2008, listed by Newsweek, as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Earlier in 1998, the Holy Ghost Congress of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in Lekki, Lagos, was reported to be one of the largest Christian gatherings ever, and every year, the RCCG Conventions and Congresses have live crowds breaking that record. Through the years, miracles of every kind have been commonplace in his ministry.
“But the moral of the story is not in these achievements, but in how his behaviour has remained unaffected by them.
“It was Mummy G.O. who said to us once, “see how God uses your father as a smokescreen to do the miracles He wants to do.”
“This realization, that “apart from Him, you can do nothing” and that “no one can receive anything that is not given to him by God,” probably explains why a man so spiritually and intellectually gifted, so revered, so respected by the high and low alike, would still be so genuinely humble, so self-effacing and so unfailingly respectful, even of his subordinates.
“His impeccable integrity, his measured speech and action at all times, his life of many challenges, many wars, his courage, his unshaken faith, his deep love for God, through phenomenal achievements and numbing personal tragedy, are all together the most persuasive evangelical message to all, even those of other faiths, of the grace and mercy of God in the life of the Saved.
For us, we are extremely proud that this man of extraordinary faith, courage and humility is one we can call our daddy.
“Daddy, Happy 80th Birthday! As your days, so shall your strength, wisdom, and favour with God in Jesus’ name. Amen.”
Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN
Vice President,
Federal Republic of Nigeria
 
Share this on WhatsApp