Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Most scorpion stings don’t require treatment, though it can be a good idea to see your doctor as a precaution. If symptoms are severe, you may need to receive hospital care. You may need to take sedatives if you’re experiencing muscle spasms and intravenous medication to treat high blood pressure, pain, and agitation.
Scorpion antivenom is sometimes used with caution because of concerns over its side effects and cost although with the development of Anascorp antivenom, adverse affects have been reduced. Your treatment will depend on whether your doctor decides that your symptoms are due to an allergic reaction, rather than the effects of the venom itself, and how severe these symptoms are.
According to ” Mayo clinic ” some first aid treatments for a person with scorpion sting.
1. Wash the area of the bite with soap and water.
Wash the area of the bite with soap and water. Place a cold compress or ice pack on the area for about 10 minutes at a time to help reduce pain and swelling. Wrap any ice or ice packs in a clean cloth to protect their skin. Apply calamine lotion or a paste of baking soda and water to the area several times a day to help relieve itching and pain.
2. Remain calm and relaxed.
Sometimes, pain makes you want to take a nap but if you’ve been stung by a scorpion, be sure not to take any medications that will cause sedation or sleepiness. This includes benzodiazepines, which are depressants that lower brain activity. The pain you feel after a scorpion sting is instantaneous and extreme. Encourage the victim tto remain calm, lie down quietly with their legs elevated to reduce the pain. Try to keep calm and relax. Excitement can lead to a higher heart rate, which will spread the venom faster and only cause more pain.3. Take antivenom.
Antivenom is the treatment of choice after stabilization and supportive care. Because of the heterogeneity of venom composition between different scorpion species, one species antivenom will have limited effect on another scorpion species venom. A doctor will treat more serious symptoms with medicine called antivenom. These medications can counteract the venom’s effects. It is important to receive antivenom as soon as possible after serious symptoms appear.


Share this on WhatsApp