Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A 24-year-old intending groom, Chukwuka Igbonekwu has committed suicide after he allegedly drank sniper insecticide in Delta State following a quarrel with his girlfriend.
The deceased’s traditional wedding was planned for Tuesday, April 19 and Wednesday, April 20, 2022, respectively, according to his wedding card.
The incident occurred at Dr. Ambrose Okereke Street, behind Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, Delta State.
A source who briefed pressmen, said the deceased died after meeting up with his girlfriend identified as Adaeze. The source also alleged that the soon-to-be-groom had told Adaeze that he was leaving her to marry another woman.
“There was a fight between late Igbonekwu and his girlfriend on Thursday, March 10, 2022, after much quarreling and fighting, we decided to enter their room to enquire what the problem was.
READ ALSO: Bridegroom’s parents, sibling, 6 others killed while returning from wedding
“The couple to-be who have been living together over the years until the groom’s death, said the fight was as a result of the late Chukwuka wanting to leave her for another lady.
“When we asked the deceased what was the issue, he said he and the girlfriend are related and also both of them are the same AS genotype and therefore cannot marry.
“After the fight, they reconciled again and later we saw both of them coming out from a shopping mall and going home on Friday.
“Towards evening, the girlfriend raised an alarm calling people that the late Chukwuka drank sniper, so immediately he was rushed to the hospital in Okpanam. The lady called the wife-to-be and she met them at the hospital, unfortunately, he died Saturday morning.
“They brought his corpse to the compound, after a while the family came and took the body together with the wife-to-be and the so-called girlfriend to the village without reporting to the police,” the source said.
The traditional marriage/wedding card indicated that the deceased hailed from Umuezeogwu village in Uzo-Uwani, Enugu State while the wife-to-be Blessing (surname held) also hailed from the same state.
Share this on WhatsApp