Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveTestimonies have been pouring in from across the world since the Healing Streams with Pastor Chris began March 18, and witnesses said it was more than their 2022 expectations.
According to a senior member of the Healing School, the organizer of the event, the promise of health restoration God promises in the Bible is being fulfilled.
Reverend Ray shared the testimony of a young Egyptian man in Germany who had been restricted to a wheelchair for two years and had been in a healing center on the first night.
“He reached out and touched the screen, got out of his chair, and began to walk,” Rev Ray said during the opening of the second day.
Also read: Biggest, largest healing crusade with Pastor Chris heralded by outpouring of Salvation and Miracles
There was the testimony of Matilda from Zambia.
“She was diagnosed with end-stage kidney failure and she was unable to even get out of bed. But even before Pastor Chris showed up on the first day, she got up and began to run, full of divine energy.”
Rev Ray added testimonies should spark up faith in people.
“The woman with the issue of blood touched Jesus’ garment, and He didn’t know she was there until she did! The man of God doesn’t have to touch you; the power of God is right where you are.”
Another member of the Healing School Rev Tom Amenkhienan explained how faith happens in order to receive miracles.
“Don’t think to yourself that you don’t have faith. The very fact that you connected is proof that you have faith. Don’t think your faith is small; Jesus said if your faith is even the size of a mustard seed, you can move a mountain with it,” Rev Tom said.
Many rejoice as they healed during the service
Healing Minister Eddy Owase also shared the testimonies of Uzoamaka—healed of cervical cancer; Robehi—healed of herniated lumbar disc also a senior minister of the Healing School.
When Pastor Chris began the session teaching about Jesus and the purpose of His coming, he showed from the Scriptures what Jesus ministry is about.
“First, He came to destroy the work of the devil. Secondly, He came to give you life. The tenth verse of John chapter 10 says Jesus came to give you life in abundance. What that means is that divine life in you overflows until you bring life to others as well,” Pastor Chris said.
After that, he led the billions of worshippers around the world joining the service to pray.
The last session, the organisers said, will eclipse everything that has gone before.
Share this on WhatsApp