Doctor drawing up Covid-19 vaccine from phial bottle and filling syringe injection for vaccination. Close up of hand with blue surgical gloves taking sars-coV-2 vaccine dose from vial with  syringe.
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
People who are already immune compromised or have had a history of cancer should very carefully weigh up the risks of COVID-19 and the vaccines, as well as the benefits.
In February 2020, just a month after the SARS-CoV-2 genome had been published, French scientist and mathematician, Jean Claude Perez, colleague of the recently deceased Prof. Luc Montagnier, published an article titled “Wuhan COVID-19 Synthetic Origins and Evolution” on the preprint server, ResearchGate.
Among Perez’s in silico findings were the presence of fragments of the genome of two variants of two retroviruses, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), in the reference genome of SARS-CoV-2 from the Wuhan seafood market.
READ ALSO: CDC accepts it mistakenly attributes thousands of death to COVID-19
The discovery of the presence of these genetic fragments made Perez among the first to raise questions in the scientific literature over the claimed natural and zoonotic origin of the SARS-CoV-2 genome.
His reasoning was that these viruses would be unlikely to find their way either into a bat cave in remote China or, as yet, an unidentified intermediate host that might have found its way, dead or alive, to the seafood market.
Montagnier, as the co-discoverer of HIV, for which he was awarded the Nobel prize in 2008, went on to collaborate with Perez on another paper, also published in the International Journal of Research, in July 2020.
The analysis presented gave further detail on Perez’s initial findings. This included the fact that 2.5% of the entire SARS-CoV-2 “Wuhan” genome was represented by 18 RNA fragment “insertions” from the HIV or SIV retroviruses, with one section having a density rate for these inserts as high as 73%.
The authors asserted that because the fragments were 18 to 30 nucleotides in length, they had the ability to modify gene expression in humans exposed to SARS-CoV-2.
They also proposed that the presence of these inserts was likely the result of human manipulation, potentially both for gain-of-function research to improve cell penetration of the virus, but also for the purpose of “vaccine design.”
READ ALSO: COVID vaccine injuries: Thailand takes lead, pays $45m to victims
“This analysis, made in silico, is dedicated to the real authors of Coronavirus COVID-19. It belongs only to them to describe their own experiments and why it turned into a world disaster: 650 000 lives (on 26 July 2020), more than those taken by the two atomic bombs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
“We, the survivors, should take lessons from this serious alert for the future of humanity. We urge our colleagues, scientists and medical doctors to respect ethical rules as expressed by Hippocrates’ oath: do not harm, never and never!”
More recently, and shortly before Montagnier’s passing on Feb. 8, aged 85, the following quote attributed to the Nobel laureate circulated widely on the internet:
“For those of you who have taken the third dose, go and take a test for AIDS. The result may surprise you. Then sue your government.”
It has not been possible to verify the authenticity of the quote, but, coupled with the discovery of a new, highly virulent HIV variant in the Netherlands in early February, the scene was set for concerns among the public and some health professionals over possible links between HIV, COVID-19 injections and SARS-CoV-2.
Added to this was mounting concern among scientists, such as renowned Belgian vaccinologist Geert Vanden Bossche Ph.D., that successive COVID-19 injections may compromise the effectiveness of the immune system, especially trained innate immunity gained following naturally-acquired infection.
READ ALSO: UK government sets up compensation for COVID-19 vaccine injuries
Vanden Bossche has proposed that high levels of non-sterilizing (“leaky”) “vaccinal” antibodies produced following injection, suppress all-important, polyreactive, antibodies produced by specialized subsets of B cells (B-1 and marginal zone B cells) associated with the innate immune system.
While innate immunity is the first line of defense for everyone, it is children in particular who are most reliant on it, given the immaturity of the adaptive arm of their immune systems, the latter being the primary mechanism of defense against respiratory pathogens in adults.
While mechanistic, clinical and even epidemiological evidence of such immune system disruption is beginning to emerge, it may be years before the significance of the effects of such erosion or disruption on different population groups with varying health status is widely understood and recognized.
Another emerging piece of the jigsaw that connects potential immune erosion with HIV is the possibility of the development of “vaccine acquired immunodeficiency syndrome” or VAIDS.
With increasing frequency of exposure of people to COVID-19 injections that erode innate immunity and disrupt cell-mediated (T cell) immune responses, it is highly likely we will witness a rise in VAIDS.
It may be longer before health authorities and vaccine manufacturers who have pushed to achieve incredibly high rates of vaccine coverage in many industrialized countries are prepared to recognize that the injections are the cause.
Culled from The Defender
 
Share this on WhatsApp