Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePresident Muhammadu Buhari has written a letter to the APC governors concerning the chairmanship crisis rocking the party since he left for London.
Kaduna Gov. Nasir El Rufai had said Buhari and 19 o the APC governors wanted the caretaker chairman and Gov. Mai Buni out—and replaced by Niger Gov. Sani Bello.
Buhari however denied ever endorsing such.
And he , in a letter to APC Governor Forum Chairman and Gov Atiku Bagudu on March 18, has written to explain why Buni must keep his seat.
Read the full letter:
As you are, no doubt aware, the All Progressives Congress, APC, is currently facing a litany of controversies and some level of uncertainties that may ultimately question its status and affect the status and feasibility of its proposed National Convention.
In addition, it has come to my attention that, because of recent events, the APC is faced with a multiplicity of court cases pending against it in various courts across the country.
As a result of this, the party faces the possibility and prospect of the invalidation of all its activities and actions by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Furthermore, the party has demonstrated its inability to proceed with the issue of effecting change in the leadership of its Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee (CECC), in a way that is inclusive, legal and respectful of the time limit set and required for giving the INEC sufficient notice of the time and venue for holding its convention.
No doubt, these controversies and uncertainties, as enumerated above, pose a real threat to the party; and may lead to a possible non-recognition of its activities, elections and the probable invalidation of all its other actions by INEC. This may ultimately even lead to its implosion and non-existence.
There is, therefore, an urgent need for the party to as much as possible, avoid all controversies, litigations and all other necessary distractions and quickly get its acts together.
In view of the foregoing, therefore, follows: I would like now to direct as

First, the issue of the leadership of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Committee (CECC), should immediately return to status quo ante;
Second, all members of the Governors’ Forum and their followers should desist from any behaviour or utterance that will likely lead to disunity in the ranks of the party, and ultimately jeopardise the transition to the convention;
Third, the Mai Mala Buni-led CECC should, accordingly, be allowed to proceed with all necessary preparations to hold the convention as planned- unfailingly, on 26th March 2022.

 
Share this on WhatsApp