Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyeama has warned that airline operators may be forced to shut down operations in the next three days due to the high cost of aviation fuel in the country.
Onyeama who also doubles as the Vice President of Airline Operators of Nigeria, gave the warning during a meeting with oil marketers, regulators, and the House of Representatives leadership recently in Abuja.
His words, “I have the mandate of every airline in this country to announce to you that if they cannot come down from their rooftop, we have only three more days to be able to fly. We are not threatening this country. We have been subsidising what we are doing.
“I will give you the rate as of today, (at) N630, N640, N650 (per litre). We have an aircraft going to Kano that has about 7000 litres of fuel on it. Multiply it by 630. The unit cost per seat already is about N70,000 per seat. You have not talked about the insurance that is very static and Nigerians pay a lot of insurance premiums because this country is stigmatised.”
READ ALSO: Aviation fuel: Airline operators allege hijack, worry over safety
He added, “You have to insure in London and other places abroad. It is a loss. All the insurance companies in Nigeria put together cannot even insure one aircraft. So, you have to go abroad to insure and they slam us with heavy premiums.
“What we use in insuring one plane is what the legacy airlines of this world use in insuring about three planes. So, the Nigerian airline is dead on arrival.
 “Yet, the fuel cost which was supposed to be about 30 to 40 per cent (of operational costs) in every other clime in the world, in Nigeria it is about 70 per cent even before this time (of scarcity). So, you can now see the mortality rate of airlines in this country and the causes.”
The Air Peace boss also challenged the marketers to disclose the actual price of aviation fuel.
He argued that the marketers had refused to answer the simple question.
“Whether you got money from the CBN or from the black market, how much is the unit cost of your acquisition so that we know if the airlines are cheating you or you are cheating the airlines, or if you have formed a cartel to increase your prices overnight.”
“From what is happening if we continue this way, the least ticket you will expect from airlines will be about N120,000 for Economy (Class). And we don’t want to do that because it will not help the ordinary man,” he added.

Share this on WhatsApp