Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is not that Popular in the Southsouth of the country. The reason is, the Southsouth is dominated by the Peoples Democratic Party PDP. The All Progressives Congress APC which is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Party, is not that Popular in the Southsouth. It was only Edo state that the All Progressives Congress APC controlled before the recent election that brought Obaseki into Power for the second time under the Platform of the PDP, it means the APC lost the state in the last Governorship Polls when the Party could not give the Governorship ticket to Governor Obaseki who is the incubent Governor of the state.
Governor Obaseki defected to the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and he was given the Governorship ticket in the Party. Governor Obaseki çontested and he won the Governorship election. Obaseki used his Popularity to win the Governorship election in the State. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress APC Governorship Candidate Ize-Iyamu challenged the Victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki at the Tribunal but Obaseki still remains the Governor of Edo state.The All Progressives Congress APC was unable to win Edo state in the last Governorship Polls, and this has made the Party not to have the control of any state in the Southsouth. The Peoples Democratic Party PDP controlled all the states in the Southsouth Presently. The APC is not Popular in the Southsouth and it will be difficult for any Presidential candidate of the Party to win election in the Southsouth.
ALSO READ: 2 South South states APC may win in next general elections
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is çontesting the Presidential Polls in 2023 Presidential Polls. The 2023 Presidential Polls may not be easy for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, if he can’t get the support of Prominent leaders in the region. Tinubu is not that cordial with any leaders in the Southsouth. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu only Popular in the Southwest out of the three Geopolitical zones that we have in the country.
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is also Popular in some parts of the north, most especially in Kano state. It should be recalled that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu marked his 69th Birthday colloquium in Kano state. This shows that Tinubu and Kano state Government under the leadership of Governor Ganduje are in good terms with each other. But Tinubu is not that Popular in the in both southsouth and the southeast.
ALSO READ: How PDP may lose Southeast in 2023
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will need the support of Governor Godwin Obaseki in Edo State to win the Presidential election in the forthcoming Presidential Polls. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is cordial with Governor Godwin Obaseki. It should be recalled that Obaseki ran to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu when he was facing some challenges with his Predecessor and Boss, Adams Oshimole. Obaseki went to Tinubu that time, so that Tinubu will be able to Mediate between Obaseki and his Boss, Oshiomole to secure the Governorship ticket in the APC.
Though, Obaseki could not get the Governorship ticket in the Party but Tinubu embraced Obaseki wholeheartedly when he visited him in Lagos. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Obaseki are very close. Obaseki still maintains his Popularity in Edo State and in the Southsouth, it means that Tinubu can use Obaseki as a medium to reach out to notable Politicians in the Southsouth. Obaseki May help Tinubu to win the heart of all the notable Politicians in the Southsouth.
Most Peoples Democratic Party PDP leaders in the Southsouth Respect Governor Godwin Obaseki in the Party. The way Obaseki won the Governorship ticket in the Party showed that Obaseki is a Popular Man among the PDP Governors. It means that if Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu could get in touch with Governor Obaseki ahead the 2023 Presidential Polls, then Tinubu may win the heart of the Southsouth.


Share this on WhatsApp