Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love







By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Director General and the Chief Executive of the National Metallurgical Development Center (NMDC), Prof. Linus Asuquo, has appealed to the Federal Government to continue to support the Centre aimed at boosting the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and eradicating poverty.
Asuquo said more support from the FG will also boost wealth creation and enhance revenue generation in the country.
The DG stated this on Friday in Jos, during the visit of the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Hon. Olamilakan Adegbite to the NMDC.
According to him: “We are appealing that the Ministry of Mines and Steel will continue to assist the Centre in it’s efforts at attaining the level where it will not only contribute effectively to government’s objective of transforming the minerals and metal sectors into major contributors to the GDP, poverty eradication, wealth creation and revenue generation in the country, but will also rely on itself by generating the income it needs to fund its expenses and research work”, he said.
Asuquo said more support is also needed to provide additional critical equipment to operationalise the EAFs for the work on steels, Testing and Commissioning of the Lead Smelting Pilot Plant, Acquisition of capacity to conduct research in the production of Brasses and other non-ferrous metals, and Enhancement of capacity for minerals beneficiation studies, among others.
Responding, Adegbite promised to step up it’s game in doing more for the Centre to achieve it’s desired goals.
The Minister laud the DG for transforming the NMDC, calling on all staff member of the Centre to support government by contributing their quota in diligence of duty.
He however fingered smuggling as one of the major factor limiting the boost of minerals in the country, calling on Nigerians to resist the activities of those smuggling the mineral deposits.
“The Ministry is collaborating with the Nigeria Custom and Nigeria Immigration Service to end the menace as this will enhance the development and growth of the Nigeria economy”, Adegbite said.
He however agreed that adequate investment in research development for mineral exploration and processing at the National Metallurgical Development Centre, would accelerate growth and development of the country’s economy.
“We will try our best to see how we can invest some funds at the Metallurgical Development Centre (NMDC) because a nation cannot progress without research development.
“For us to move forward in Nigeria, we cannot continue to export everything, we have a lot of graduates who are coming out of school every year. Mineral exploration and processing must be given adequate attention”, he said.








Share this on WhatsApp