Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It is becoming more obvious that Captain Ahmed Musa might not be in the Super Eagles for much longer. His recent move to return to boyhood club Kano Pillars is one reminiscent of the moves footballers make at the twilight of their careers. It is however surprising that Musa is at the twilight of his career at 28, that is a topic for another day. As it stands, it appears Musa might be making it to the next AFCON and particularly the next World Cup based on sentiments than merit. Considering the number of brilliant attacking talents coming up, Musa must raise his game to remain in the team. However, it is time to start looking at who the mantle of leadership will fall on when Musa finally retires. Here are three candidates for the role.
William Troost-Ekong
Since making his debut in 2015, Troost-Ekong has been ever present in the Super Eagles. He has formed a formidable partnership with Leon Balogun and has been the more consistent of the pair. Troost-Ekong has been the stand-in captain and will be a strong candidate for the role substantively.
Troost-Ekong has the persona and the charisma to become the next Super Eagles captain. The 27-year-old is also one of the most capped players in the present team with 47 caps. If chosen, he will be keeping the tradition of having center-backs as the team’s captain, following in the footsteps of the likes of Christian Chukwu, Stephen Keshi, Uche Okechukwu and Joseph Yobo.
 
Wilfred Ndidi
Ndidi has not been in the picture as one of the leaders in the team but he is one player with all the attributes of a captain. He has been consistent in the team, just as he has been at his club – Leicester. Since making his debut in 2015, he has made 38 appearances. At 24, he will probably be the youngest to be considered for the post. His age might be a positive as he will have the chance of being in the position for long, thereby bringing some stability to the position.
He will follow in the footsteps of Sunday Oliseh and maybe Mikel Obi in having a defensive midfielder as the leader of the team.
Kenneth Omeruo
Omeruo is one of the most senior members of the team and should normally be a front-runner candidate for the role. He made his debut in 2013 and has gone on to make 52 appearances.
However, at 27, his stock is also gradually falling in the team. He is not a starter and might gradually be losing his place entirely in the team. Playing in the second division in Spain these days does not also help his case.
For this writer, Ndidi will be the best choice as captain considering some of the factors stated. He will bring stability to the team by possibly being in the role for a long time and he has all the other attributes. He could go on to become a world class player, he is well mannered and speaks well. When it is time to chose, it will become clearer but this writer can’t look beyond the aforementioned three.


Share this on WhatsApp