Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The House of Representatives appears to have lost confidence in the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Police and security agencies in the aftermath of the recurring bandits’ operations without restraint across the country. Governor Aminu Masari had earlier requested that citizens be allowed to carry arms for self-defence in the hopeless situation that bandits have sustained their violent attacks beyond the control of the security structures in Nigeria.
The Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ado Doguwa, in solidarity with Nigerians over the insecurity crisis across the country, has made a case that Nigerians should be allowed to bear arms in self-defense considering the deteriorating security situation in the country.
Ado Doguwa, representing Doguwa/Tudun Wada Federal Constituency of Kano State in the National Assembly on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), at the House plenary on Thursday, was moved to tears during the House debate on the destruction from the terrorist attack on the Kaduna bound train at Birnin Gwari, Kaduna State.
Doguwa cried loud  that the security agencies have failed, agitating that citizens should not be at the mercy of terrorists or bandits.
Also, Aminu Suleiman, another APC lawmaker, lamented that the security agencies have shown ineptitude.
The lawmaker cited the case a group of young boys in Kano State, called Suka, who he says are budding and could grow into another security threat.
Suleiman chided the House of Representatives over its own effectiveness in following up resolutions passed on security matters, protesting that the lawmakers should proceed on strike until the security situation in the country is brought under control.
Suleiman further challenged President Muhammadu Buhari, the Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces,  to live up to his responsibilities and guarantee the security of lives and property of Nigerian citizens.
The House further expressed doubt over the capability of the National Security Adviser, who has remained unchanged since 2015.
Another lawmaker, Dachung Bagos, was of the view that the House should suspend approvals for further release of funds to security agencies until they account for all the funds released so far.
Share this on WhatsApp