Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
China on Tuesday moved into war ravaged Ukraine to evacuate Chinese citizens. The citizens were escorted out of Ukraine by the foreign Minister of China, Wang Yi.
China foreign minister in an interaction with the foreign Minister of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, on Tuesday, as the Chinese government commenced evacuation of its citizens, emphasized the need for more negotiations between Russia and Ukraine to resolve the crisis towards ending the war.
A Chinese national shot in the waist while travelling by road from eastern Ukraine to Lviv Tuesday, was said to be receiving medical treatment at a hospital.
About 600 students from China fled Kyiv and the southern city of Odessa on Monday. They were safely conveyed by bus to Moldova being escorted by officials of the Chinese Embassy and local police protection.
Another batch of about 700-800 Chinese nationals were evacuated on Tuesday by road to Moldova.
The Ambassador of China to Ukraine refuted in a video message on Sunday that he fled Kyiv, saying that he was “waiting until it is safe” to evacuate the nationals.
China identified about 6,000 citizens residing in Ukraine working or studying.
The China Embassy in Kyiv had earlier directed any nationals intending to leave Ukraine to attach Chinese flag to their vehicles. China changed the directive and resolved to move in directly for evacuation following unverified social media exposure of increasing hostility against Chinese nationals in the country.
The animosity against Chinese nationals may not be unconnected with the statement of China blaming the U.S. for the war in Ukraine and not condemning the invasion of Ukraine by Russia.
China’s foreign Minister Wang Yi, in a telephone conversation with Dmytro Kuleba, said that China “deeply regrets that conflict has broken out between Ukraine and Russia and is paying extreme attention to the harm suffered by civilians.”
Wang maintained that “(China) supports all constructive international efforts that are conducive towards a political resolution,” reiterating the need for Russia and Ukraine to “find a way to resolve the issue through negotiations.”
Kuleba expressed that Ukraine “looks forward to China opening mediations in order to realise a ceasefire.”
Share this on WhatsApp