Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Ahead of the forthcoming 2023 general elections in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, prominent politicians and political parties who have interests in participating in the forthcoming polls have, considerably, commenced political activities that may ensure their success at the poll.
Although, it not in the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, but zoning has been playing major roles,in the course of taking so many political decisions in Nigeria, today.
Besides, zoning of some strategic political offices have been a great considerable factor in the course of determining the proximity of a certain politician, from a particular region or geopolitical zone, to occupy a certain office.
Knowing full well that, according to the zoning system that is being adopted by politicians and political parties in Nigeria, when a particular party office or elective Office is zoned to a geopolitical zone, there are some party or elective positions that may automatically not be considerate for politicians from the region or geopolitical zone to vie for.
ALSO READ: Why Rochas Okorocha may return to PDP
For instance, according to a recent perception that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has zoned her presidential ticket to the South West, while Vice Presidential slot is being perceived to be zoned to Northeast. This zoning system, if formally ratify by leadership of the party, it may considerably, stop the incumbent President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; and Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila from occupying the seats of Senate President and Speaker of the House of Assembly, if they are elected to return to the two houses of assembly, in 2023.
Remarkably, it could be recalled that Femi Gbajabiamila hails from Lagos State, Southwest; and Ahmed Lawan hails from Yobe State, Northeast.
Hence, the two geopolitical zones may not be allowed to occupy Office of the President, Office of the Vice President, Office of the Senate President and Office of the Speaker of House of Representatives. This may amount to inequity and unfairness, which the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may not want to portray.
Considerably, if All Progressives Congress (APC) wins the 2023 presidential election, the incumbent President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, may not be able to retain their offices, even if they are reelected to the National Assembly.


Share this on WhatsApp