Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The All Progressive Congress (APC) has many bigwigs who dictate how things are done in the party. At the state, regional and national levels prominent politicians are positioned to direct affairs and make sure that things are not falling apart
One of the major players in the APC is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The former governor of Lagos state is not just the national leader of the party but he is also a key role player when it comes to making cogent decisions in the party. Tinubu is a force to be reckoned with in all matters in the APC because he is one of the founding fathers of the party.
To this end, the fear or rather the reference of Tinubu by any politician in the APC is the beginning of wisdom. Apart from the fact that he dictates what happens in his domain state Lagos, he indirectly directs the affairs of the party in the state.
ALSO READ: Why Tinubu shouldn’t have said he doesn’t need physical strength to be Nigeria’s President
For instance, his candidates has been the ones becoming the governor of the state at the end of each election period. The former governors of the state Babatunde Raji Fashola, Akinwunmi Ambode, and the incumbent governor of the state Babajide Sanwo-Olu can all be referred to as the political sons of Asiwaju Tinubu. This means that Tinubu is above all the politicians at the state level.
At the regional level, the role being played by Tinubu can never be undermined by anyone in the party. Unlike in the PDP where there is leadership tussle between Gov. Makinde and former governor Fayose, there is nobody who can dare to log it out with Asiwaju Tinubu. He stood out as a party leader that cannot be thrown aside for any reason. It should be noted that out of the six states in his region, by his influence one way or the order his party the APC is proud to be in charge of five.
All the governors in the APC ruling states cannot but pay homage and always ready to do obeisance to the Jagaban without much ado. In order word, Asiwaju can be referred to as the ‘premier’ of the South West in the All Progressive Congress (APC).
ALSO READ: 2023: Why Tinubu may step down from the presidential race
At the national level, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s influential strength is second to none. He calls the shots based on his vast political experience. Through his influence, many politicians are occupying various offices in the country today. For instance, Babatunde Fashola and Rauf Aregbesola who are Ministers of the Federal Republic may not have been chosen to serve In the APC government.
The choice of Yemi Osinbajo as the Vice President of the country is not behind the knowledge of Bola Tinubu. He was the one who stood his ground that Osinbajo is the best choice to fill the gap of the vice president. At the same time, all the past chairmen of the party got into the prestigious office through his help and approval.
As powerful and influential as Asiwaju Tinubu is, there are still two politicians in the APC that he cannot overlook nor belittle at any point in time.
First and foremost, there have been insinuations that there was a feud between president Buhari and Asiwaju Tinubu as a result of the seeming distance between the duo for some times in the past. This allegation was nullified as Bola Tinubu visited President Buhari at the Aso Villa in the company of Bisi Akande.
This incidence has dispelled the rumour of any rancour between Tinubu and Buhari hence it has been proved that Asiwaju Tinubu can never overlook President Mohammadu Buhari regardless of his pedigree and influence in the APC.
Another politician who Tinubu holds in high esteem in the APC is the governor of Kano state Ganduje. This was made public when Tinubu decided to celebrate his 69th birthday anniversary away from his residence in Lagos instead taking it to the northern state of Kano. This incident looks ordinary but it is not normal for the Jagaban to have his birthday celebrated elsewhere apart from his home if not for his reference and respect for Gov. Ganduje.


Share this on WhatsApp