Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Passionate about engendering positive youth development in his constituency,member representing Kosofe II, Hon. Ganiyu Okanlawon has declared that grassroots football is a unifier.

The lawmaker along with other well meaning stakeholders called for more involvement of public spirited individuals in the enhancement of grassroots football.

Okanlawon who represents Kosofe Constituency II at the state Assembly, championed this cause at the grand finale of the Okla Unity Cup Competition played at the Beko Ransome Kuti Recreational Centre in Lagos.

The football tournament which happens to be the maiden edition was bankrolled by the lawmaker in addition to the existing Okla Tennis Academy, a bi-annual sporting series, fast churning out good players.

According to the lawmaker who also received “The Pride of Kosofe Award” right on the pitch, peaceful coexistence receives a boost when sporting activities are encouraged.

Okanlawon said: “Looking at the crowd today it gives me joy that what I have always been thinking of in life – unity and peaceful coexistence is resonating here today we can all feel it, so that is why we tagged this competition Okla unity Cup.

“It is about stimulating and engendering peaceful coexistence, unity and bonding amongst the people, that is the very essence and I believe we have achieved it with this competition.

“Present here are scouts from the Lagos State football association to poach players that have displayed their skills very well.



So the idea is to bring them from the local level to the International level and it is about creating that enabling environment.

“These I have done by Organizing this competition, it is about creating access for the young footballers to make a success of their career, from this competition we will generate players that will represent the state and the country by the grace of God.

“It is also to build an active, healthy, strong and safe society.

“When the youths have something to do as the saying goes ‘an idle hand is the devils workshop’, so at every point when they have something to do it takes them off the streets.

“It takes them away from vices and criminalities. That is the idea.

“So I am enjoining all public spirited people, philanthropists, individuals  and corporate organisations to come on board and organize activities like this, so that we can have a saner and safer society.

The lawmaker also disclosed that the football tournament is going to be an annual affair.

“This is going to be an annual activity because we also have another activity in the realm of table tennis, I run Okla Table Tennis Academy and we organize competition twice in a year, that will come on board after the Ramadan.



“For the Academy we have the junior, intermediate, the senior and the cadet class, all doing very well, they’ve been going to Teslim Balogun Stadium, Eko Club, Country Club to win laurels.
“The Ronaldo and Messi of this world started from cradle, so when you start from cradle you can make something out of it.
“The display of football artistry and wizardry here with people showing their skills speaks volume.
“ I want to assure you that from this activity  we will generate the next generation of Nigerian players.
In solidarity with the lawmaker his colleague representing Alimosho II, Hon. Kehinde Joseph was at the grand finale to watch quality football.

In his assessment of sport development in the area, Hon KJ as he is fondly called by his constituents note that the standard is topnotch and if many more well meaning individuals rise in support of the league greater heights can be attained.

The standard and quality exhibited by the teams and the referees is top-notch.
“However people must be politically active, they need to obtain their PVC’s so as to enable them field their own choice, who will deliver this kind of dividend of democracy as done by Hon Okanlawon here.”
 He noted that the programme is a laudable one and that the youths should own the tournament to ensure they exhibit the spirit of sportsmanship to help bring out their best .


At the grand finale of the week long competition, Maryland United FC of Mende ward F defeated Sporting Royal of Oworoshoki ward B, 2 – 0 to lift the golden trophy accompanied with N500,000 cash prize.
Oworoshoki Sporting Royal came second and got N300,000.

Kakaki FC won the third place trophy and N200,000 having trounced the Honor FC by 2-0.

The coach of Maryland United FC, I.K Mba was adjudged as the best coach while Anthony All-Stars won the Fair Play Award.

Tunde Onifade of Oworosoki Sporting Royal won the Golden Boot Award having scored 4 goals in the tournament, Samson Akingbade Sporting Royal goal keeper also won the Golden Glove, Francis Etuk of Maryland United FC won the most valuable player.

The Chairman Local Organizing Committee (LOC) for the competition Mr Kemac Emina piqued by the dwindling state of Junior league in Nigeria, notes that government needs to enhance grassroots football so as to unlock the hidden potentials.

“ This is specifically made for the youths of Kosofe Constituency 1, we have seven wards from which we chose two teams each, making fourteen teams and an additional two randomly selected to bring it up to 16 teams in all.

“It has been a peaceful atmosphere thus far, and this is one of the objectives of this competition-creating a bond of friendship between the youths.

“As we head towards the general elections we don’t want any breach of security.

“The youths compete under a strict but conducive atmosphere.

“It is unfortunate that local league is not getting the required attention,back in the days when we normally have the J-League amongst the secondary school student, people like Ndidi came up from there somewhere in Apapa local government.

“If they were not given such opportunities may be he could not have been discovered.

“I want to encourage and advise Lagos State Government to go back to the J-League that is the secondary schools and the grassroots team, where you can see them raw and fresh.

“It is the youths that normally do exercise.  For instance Messi, John Mikel Obi, Taiye Taiwo, they played the same time at the Olympics, Messi is still playing top class football with PSG, where is Taiye Taiwo today? Where is John Mikel Obi today?
“ Although he is still playing but I don’t know if he can play at that level , so it is good we are growing grassroots football like our Honourable is doing now.

 “It is a worthwhile adventure so I will encourage other lawmakers,Commissioners, not only politicians alone, we have blue chip companies who can come into this to at least sponsor.

“It does not cost much, with little money and encouragement you will see people come out and youths with skills will be discovered.

Also speaking on the sideline an APC Chieftain in Kosofe, Hon. Fatai Gbanimu notes that sporting activities of this magnitude unifies the people more.

“ It is a unifying factor for our youths it is something we should all rally round and support, because this kind of competitive activity will reduce youth restiveness;thuggery,hoolig in the society.”

This enhances the growth and well being of this young lads,it will also reduce the security challenges that we have, as youngsters when they are engage in sporting activities of this nature it would be difficult for them to go into things that breed vices in the society.

“This is the maiden edition in consequent editions we will see greater improvement of our youths across the nook and cranny of our local government and the constituency.”
Share this on WhatsApp