Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The 2023 general elections are coming and it is not surprising that all political parties are busy in one way or the other trying to see how much they can win the electorates to themselves. Politics is Nigeria is very intriguing and interesting for lovers of the game of politics. World over, politics is a game of numbers, the person who has the highest number of votes wins the election. Democracy which according Abraham Lincoln is the government of the people, by the people and for the people, gives room for people to exercise their fundamental human rights without being forced or coerced to do so.
It is no longer news that the Peoples Democratic Party has fixed it presidential primary to take place by May 28, so far, the party seems fully prepared for the primary. The major contenders that Nigerians are looking forward to see their performance are the former President of the Senate and former governor of Kwara State, Bukola Saraki, Aminu Tambuwal, a former Speaker of the House of Representatives and governor of Sokoto State, and also the former President of the Senate and former Secretary to the government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim. All eyes seem to be on them and the question is, whom among them can win the primaries?
There are certain things the party is doing that may cause the party the presidential seat next year. The party must endeavour to avoid the mistakes it made in the run off to the 2015 and 2019 general elections which made them lose the general elections.
1. The question of which zone to cede the party’s presidential ticket to should be settled before the primaries. This will save the party a lot of problems later. The mistake of announcing the prices of the forms seems to have been a wrong decision. First things must always be done first before jumping.
2. The governors from the South have said that the South is the base or center of the Peoples Democratic Party. The current president is also from the North, and for the sake of equity and balance, the South should be allowed to present the next president. Aminu Tambuwal has counter this argument by saying that what Nigerians need is not a zonal president but someone who has the ability and capacity to lead the country. This needs to be dealt with as a possible.
In summary, at the very end, it is the people who will decide who their leaders should be or should not be.


Share this on WhatsApp