Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveImo Deputy Governor’s wife urges privileged women to mentor fellow women.
 
Wife of Imo Deputy Governor, Dr Bola Njoku, has challenged privileged women to support other women through mentoring and capacity building.
She gave the advice on Tuesday during the 2022 International Women’s Day celebration by Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike Women Association (MOUAUWA).
Njoku was the Chairman of the occasion and pioneer President of MOUAUWA, said that gender barrier could only be broken through mentoring and capacity building.
“It is a task we can do, we need to encourage one another. We need to be confident and be focused in whatever we do,” said Mrs Njoku, whose husband, Placid, was the pioneer Vice-Chancellor of the university.
In her presentation, Wife of former Governor of Ebonyi, Mrs Eunice Egwu, says there is need to focus more on the flexibility of inherent abilities in both genders as human beings rather than the gender.
According to her, if we all get committed in engaging ourselves to getting involved in our family chores and work, we will have a more well behaved children and better humans generally.
Egwu, who delivered a keynote speech on “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow” said there has been struggle for equality on both genders in areas such as equal opportunities, economic and political emancipations among others.
She attributed general apathy and male discriminatory disposition as some of the reasons for not making a reasonable success over gender equality problem.
The seasoned educationist insisted that gender equality, if achieved, in any home, society, organisation and institution would guarantee a happier individual, home and people.
“Fundamentally and generally, we need to analyse our mindset, perception and stereotype attitude and bias towards the female gender.
“If we all start to treat each other with respect and love irrespective of gender, we will have a better society,” she urged.
Earlier in her remarks, President of MOUAUWA, Dr Nkechinyere Iwe, said it was a special day for them to celebrate women’s achievements in all aspects of life.
She said that 8th March every year was a global date for the International Women’s Day in recognition of all that women and girls stand for around the world.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that highlight of the occasion was the launching of MOUAUWA N60 million coaster bus purchase fund.
The women conferred an Award of Honour on the deputy governor’s wife in recognition of her numerous contributions to the success of the association.
Share this on WhatsApp