Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Anambra police command  has arrested no fewer than 13 hoodlums who defied the order of Governor Chukwuma Soludo.
The command which paraded the suspects said they were arrested for engaging in activities banned by the state government.
A press release by the state police spokesperson, DSP Toochukwu Ikenga, said the police will continue to enforce the ban, while also fighting other forms of crime in the state.
“The Commissioner of Police, Anambra State Command, CP Echeng Echeng has said the ongoing effort to rid Anambra State of all manner of crimes and criminality is yielding enviable results,” he said.
“The CP stated this, today Friday 25th March 2022, following the successful arrest of thirteen suspects for various offences ranging from touting and illegal revenue collections, vandalism and other related violent crimes across the State.”
According to Ikenga said, four of the suspects included Emmanuel Igwe ‘M’, aged 20years, Chukwudi Obasi ‘M’, aged 38years, Izuchukwu Enemuwa ‘M’ aged 28years and Uchenna Benedict, ‘M’ aged 28years were on 23/3/2022 arrested along the Headbridge, Onitsha while touting and collecting revenue illegally from motorists and other members of the public.
“Another suspect, Chimezie Nwankwo ‘M’ Aged 34years of Ezimunya village, Umunya, was intercepted and arrested on 23rd March 2022, along airport road, Nteje.
“The police recovered from him a Hiace bus, three hammers, two axes and a police belt with which he, alongside two others still at large, use in terrorising citizens and stealing armoured cables installed around the Anambra State Airport.
“Similarly, Ali Friday ‘M’ Aged 28yrs, of Dusogu Village, Awkuzu, Onuorah Chukwuemeka, ‘M’ Aged 21years, of Eziama village, Igbariam, Igboegbunam Chiemelie, ‘M’ Aged 20, of Amabor Village, Abba, Chinedu Chukwuobi ‘M’, Aged 45years of Imengu Village, Igbariam and Oforbuike Alegu, ‘M’ Aged 27years of Akpu Village, Abagana on 22/3/2022 were arrested for being in possession of vandalized armoured cables and a car battery.
“Finally, Chukwuemeka Anyanti ‘M’ 26years, Chijoke Anyanti ‘M’ 22years, Onyedika Anyanti ‘M’ 20years, all natives of Nkwelle Village, Oyi LGA of Anambra State were arrested on 24/3/2022 for being in possession of one locally fabricated single barrel pistol and two live cartridges.”
Share this on WhatsApp