Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Nigerian teachers are being trained to attract at least a trillion naira into Nigeria from their educational services according to Facebook Community Accelerator Award Winner for year 2021, Dr. Peter Ogudoro.
He gave this hint while addressing Kenyan teachers who hosted him recently as a guest speaker during their Gala event which was held at Hilton Hotel, Nairobi under the auspices of Teachers Notice Board Kenya, a teachers’ community of over four hundred thousand members.
Dr. Peter Ogudoro disclosed later through a press release issued in Lagos, Nigeria that functional education delivered by highly motivated teachers should be considered Africa’s route out of the pervasive poverty on the continent.
READ ALSO: NUT appeals to Abiodun to improve teachers’ welfare in Ogun
He revealed that Facebook is currently supporting the Nigerian Teachers’ community of over three hundred thousand members which he leads to promote learner-centred teaching in Nigerian schools which according to him, holds the key to global competitiveness for Nigeria.
He told school owners who benefited from one of Facebook’s school growth projects recently that several other opportunities are being sponsored by Facebook to help the country use high quality education to accelerate the nation’s development.
One of such projects is an international teachers’ conference which will be held in Lagos from April 11-12.
According to him, the heads of regional and federal education agencies in the country such as the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), National Universities Commission (NUC), and Universal Basic Education Commission will attend the event to help school owners and teachers understand new education policy directions so they can perform their roles effectively.
READ ALSO: French teachers protest against COVID-19 incoherent policy for schools
On teachers’ conditions of service, he encouraged public and private school owners in the country to pay teachers well and invest enormously in teacher education and continuous professional development of teachers to ensure that Nigerian teachers become globally competitive which he argued is indispensable for national development.
He, however, revealed that members of Nigerian Teachers online community are currently being assisted by Facebook to acquire cutting-edge skills in teaching and school promotion to enable them to earn the income they deserve and attract huge foreign exchange from abroad which will improve their welfare and promote the economic wellbeing and reputation of Nigeria.
He disclosed in the chat with journalists in Lagos that Facebook has commissioned him to produce a handbook for teachers which will become a reference material that will prescribe international best practice in teaching and learning and help the 85 million teachers in the world serve the over one and half billion children and young people in the world’s school system well.
The Nigerian Teachers Facebook community was founded in 2016 by Dr. Peter Ogudoro as a platform for teachers to share free resources for better quality teaching and for networking in pursuit of enhanced career prospects.
Share this on WhatsApp