Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Many people are used to or addicted to their mobile phones, they engage in various activities that can be battery draining and the way people use their devices sometimes require them to top up the battery level, so what are some reasons why using Powerbank is not good for charging mobile phones?
Power banks are packaged batteries with an outstanding circuit intended to control the progression of intensity. It essentially works by putting away electrical vitality that can be utilized to charge your mobile phone later. Power banks are getting amazingly well known because of the long term that individuals spend on their cell phones.
Notwithstanding, the proof has sprung up to show huge questions about utilizing power banks to charge mobile phones. Numerous reports have indicated the plausibility of intensity banks harming a mobile phone’s battery life over the long haul. With various exchanges in different gatherings on this issue, it is basic that one investigates the ramifications of charging a mobile phone. Powerbanks can affect your battery Performance due to overheating, overcharging, over-voltage, and overcurrent. There are many power banks that are of questionable quality. These power banks can distribute a lower or higher voltage than what is required to charge your mobile phone. Using the wrong voltage to charge your mobile phone can cause serious damage to the battery life of your mobile device. Unfortunately, there is hardly any indication to show that a particular power bank is genuine or fake. Even if the output voltage written on it shows the ideal voltage, you should still be skeptical. Here is the reason why power banks are not good for charging mobile phones;
Low-Quality Power Bank: Quality is very important when choosing a power bank. A bad quality power bank can damage your phone’s battery, as well as your phone’s charging port. It can also create some security risks. For example, overcharging a bad quality Lithium-ion power bank can cause the power bank to explode.
Bad Voltage: Having the wrong voltage in your power bank will lead to problems. The ideal voltage to charge a phone is 5V. If any power bank gives a voltage of 4.2V or less, it will drain your battery instead of charging it. Any voltage output greater than 5V will extensively damage your phone’s circuits by overloading it more than it can handle.
Overcharging: Power banks should essentially be used sparingly. Using power banks to constantly keep your phone at 100% charge will over time damage the battery, which will lead to your phone not being able to retain its charge for long.
To avoid these problems, avoid using your power bank to overcharge your phone. Use it for emergencies, and even when you do use it avoid charging your phone up to 100%.


Share this on WhatsApp