Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The ad hoc campaign team of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, under the aegis of the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF), has spread to Nasarawa State. The group was in Niger State at the weekend.
Members of the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) stormed Nasarawa State on Sunday, in their set agenda of rallying support for the CBN Governor among political leaders in the 19 northern states.
At the Nasarawa State stakeholders rally in Lafia, the spokesperson of the group, Aliyu Muhammad Sani, disclosed that the Northern Youth Forum extended their consultation with relevant stakeholders to Nasarawa State to seek their alliance with the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) in getting Godwin Emefiele to contest for the 2023 presidential election.
Aliyu Muhammad Sani emphasized that UNNYF is involved in the consultation tour to mobilise massive support for Emefiele in the spirit of producing a credible, competent, and economically endowed leader, who, “the group believes will consolidate on rapid economic growth that he has already started in the current position he occupies.”
According to Sani: “I stand to be corrected, but I dare boldly to say that Dr. Godwin Emefiele’s achievements have reflected in all states of the country and are there for history and posterity to judge.
“It never came easy, it was not done at his comfort zone, rather, it took a lot of courage, foresight, perseverance, determination and hard work to overtake the numerous challenges scavenging on the fragile economy of our dear nation.”
The Coordinator of the Northern Nigeria Youth Forum for Emefiele 2023 in Nasarawa State, Faruk Mohammed Ofoku, also emphasized that the Lafia consultation was necessary because of the youthful inclusion of Nasarawa youth into the decision making process of the state.
The State Coordinator declared: “The good people of Nasarawa State benefited so much from the good stewardship of the current CBN governor. Nasarawa is the home of solid mineral, Dr. Emefiele’s policies of diversification invested so much in solid mineral resources and agriculture.
“Looking at all these economic and lifesaving interventions of the CBN governor in Nasarawa State and all other northern states, we the progressive Northern Nigerian Youth of Nasarawa State joined the National leadership of our coalition and strongly call on Dr. Godwin Emefiele to please, as matter of urgency, declare to run the President of Nigeria 2023.”
Share this on WhatsApp