Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveEmir lauds Buhari on FCE Kontagora conversion to varsity.
 
The Emir of Kontagora, Alhaji Muazu Barau II, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the bill to upgrade the Federal College of Education, Kontagora, Niger, to a university of education.
Buhari assented to a bill to establish the Federal University of Education, Kontagora, Niger, recently.
With the president’s assent, it repeals the law establishing Federal College of Education Kontagora, upgrading it to the status of a university.
The emir who was represented by Alhaji Yusuf Ubandoma, led the delegation on a visit to the Provost of the college, Prof. Rashid Haruna at his office.
He explained that the conversion of the college to university would further resolve the challenge of shortage of well-trained teachers to manage schools across the northern part of the country.
He said that the people of Kontagora and Borgu emirates would for ever be grateful to the president for the conversion.
“We equally appreciate the useful contribution of Sen. Aliyu Abdullahi for his doggedness in pursuing the bill and lobbying his colleagues.
“All federal legislators from Niger, the leadership of the National Assembly, particularly Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and all legislators for the various roles they played in ensuring that the law was passed and sent to the president for assent.
“We in the two emirates assured the public that all necessary support would be given to the federal government to ensure that the university takes off.
“So far, the infrastructure available is good enough to provide smooth acadamic ground for the take off of our newly established university.
“We are ready to support and encourage our provost and management teams for providing physical structures for the smooth running of the institution,” he said.
Speaking earlier, Prof. Rashid Haruna, the provost of the college, expressed delight with the emirs of Kontagora and Borgu for taking time to visit the institution.
He said that the physical structures already in place would serve as buildings for various heads of departments.
“We have well trained manpower with basic educational backgrounds to manage all academic learnings programmes of the university.
The college was established in September 1978 as Federal Advanced Teachers College and upgraded to College of Education in 1987.
Share this on WhatsApp