Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The projection in certain quarters that the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will not contest against Bola Tinubu for the All Progressives Congress presidential ticket may be over as the VP has finally informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his presidential ambition, Nationaldailyng.com has gathered.
According to reliable sources, the VP told the president of his desire to take over from him at the expiration of his tenure in 2023 to consolidate the achievements they recorded since they took over from the opposition PDP in 2015.
“Certainly, VP Osinbajo has told the president that he wants to succeed him,” one of our sources said.
“The vice president had first consulted some prominent Nigerians who encouraged him to vie for the presidency and they also encouraged him to tell the president himself.
READ ALSO: Presidency 2023: Osinbajo may not have a chance – Ogunlewe
“They told him not to allow a third party to tell the president so that the ambition will not be misconstrued,” he said.
Another source said when Osinbajo approached the president with the story, Buhari was not surprised.
“Buhari smiled in his usual characteristic manner…he listened to the VP carefully and while responding, he gave him the green light and wished him well without giving him any commitment or assurance of supporting him ahead of other contenders.
“He blessed the intention just the way he blessed Tinubu when he visited him in the Villa and unveiled his plan to vie for the presidency.
“And I think the president is being careful. Remember what he said while granting an interview to a national television.”
Though Osinbajo, a lawyer, politician and pastor, is yet to declare his intention to run for the office of president in 2023, many support groups and individuals have sprung up rooting for him.
The groups have been going round the country and sponsoring adverts in print and broadcast media urging the vice president to contest.
Another source said recent happenings indicated that Osinbajo will “Definitely slug it out with Tinubu and others for the APC ticket.”
He said, “The projection in certain quarters that the VP will not contest against Tinubu is now over. The two of them who are from the South West would confront each other. They both have their support bases but Tinubu, of course, is more of a politician than Osinbajo. He has more support base across the country but that notwithstanding, the truth is that whoever the president supports would surely have an upper hand,” he said.

Share this on WhatsApp