Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, rejected the invitation given to it by the new Acting National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, Governor Sani Bello of Niger State.
The invitation was for INEC to attend the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the APC scheduled to hold on Thursday. But, INEC rejected the invitation insisting that the letter was not signed by the known Acting APC Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni and Secretary, Senator Akpan Udoedehe. According to a report, INEC insists that those are the Acting APC Chairman and Secretary it knows. Moreover, their signatures on the letter inviting them are required in line with electoral laws.

This has put APC in a tight corner. The implication is that INEC would not honour that invitation to be present at APC NEC meeting where Bello’s appointment as Acting APC National Chairman and other key decisions would be approved. If INEC is not present as it said, it may affect what APC planned to do at its NEC meeting. Again, refusing to recognize Bello means another setback for APC ahead of its national convention.

Come to think of it, Buni is away in Dubai for treatment. He may not be able to come back to sign the letters. In addition to that, he may be reluctant to do so due to the controversial manner APC Governors and other party leaders reportedly announced that he has been sacked for not doing things well. Even if Buni could come back to sign the letters, he may change his mind.
Most importantly, the planned APC national convention may not hold. This is because INEC insists that the party ought to have written a letter to notify it of the national convention at least 21 days before the event in line with the law. But, today is 11th March already. The date is barely fifteen days to March 26, 2022 which the party fixed its convention. INEC insists that the 21 days prior notice is a legal requirements which no party should violate. This may force APC to postpone the convention.


Share this on WhatsApp