Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Former Governor of Kano state and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso has officially announced his exit from Nigeria’s main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday.
Kwankwaso had, for weeks now, been linked with the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), but he reportedly told former Senate President Bukola Saraki that he was still a member of PDP during a recent visit.
The former governor had become aggrieved after he lost control of the Kano chapter of PDP to forces said to be loyal to Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State some months ago.
Some Kwankwaso’s associates, including the governorship candidate of PDP in the 2019 general election had on Monday announced their defection to NNPP.
READ ALSO: Kwankwaso frustrated, laments PDP’ll fall if he defects
Toeing the same path, Kwankwaso, in a letter addressed to PDP chairman in his ward and made available to newsmen in Kano on Tuesday said that he was no longer a member of the party, with effect from March 29.
He attributed his exit from the party to “some serious and irreconcilable differences.
“May I begin by thanking my ward chairman, friends and well-wishers of my ward, state and indeed, the country and beyond, for the very respectful relationship we have had.
“It is with deep sense of responsibility that I write to notify you that, as a result of some serious and irreconcilable differences, I have reached the conclusion that my continued stay in PDP is untenable.
“Therefore, effective from today, Tuesday, March 29, 2022, I have withdrawn my membership from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” the letter read.
He had yet to formally announce which political party he was planning to join after his exit from PDP.
Some PDP stakeholders in Kano State had, about a week ago, urged the party’s National Working Committee to dissolve the state executives and constitute a caretaker committee.
PDP Chairman in the state, Alhaji Shehu Wada-Sagagi, a loyalist of Kwankwaso and three others, had obtained a court order restraining PDP from dissolving the state executives.
Share this on WhatsApp