Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The performance and presence of the People’s Democratic Party need to seriously improve ahead of the 2023 general elections in two certain regions of the country. There is no doubt that the PDP doesn’t have much influence in at least two of the sic geopolitical zones of the country.
The last presidential elections were lost partly because the People’s Democratic Party was unable to get enough support from the northwest region. And the zone remains the biggest in term of number of states and votes that are recorded by the INEC.
As a matter of fact, the PDP is so underrepresented in that axis to the extent that only Mr. Aminu Tambuwal is the PDP’s governor right now in the zone. That means the PDP is unable to control six out of seven states in the northwest zone.
There is a need to jerk up the efforts of the political party if at all it intends to remain relevance and win the next general elections. The party is still lucky to have people like Aminu Wali, Mr. Sule Lamido, a former Jigawa state governor among other top politicians.
ALSO READ: Tinubu needs the support of this PDP governor in South South to realize his ambition
Then, without mincing words, the PDP needs to have a serious work on that axis. The national chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu, can do better by reawakening the opposition in the zone. The PDP may risk losing the next general elections if it doesn’t work on northwest.
It is also surprising that the PDP can point at just Benue State in all of north-central zone. Even the PDP couldn’t control Kwara State. Mr. Samuel Ortom is the only PDP governor in that zone. Whereas north-central has some big states including Niger and Plateau.
The level of dominance of the All Progressives Congress in that area should bother the PDP. And the next general elections are fast approaching. The PDP may need to assiduously work on north-central as well.
The top politicians like Mr. Samuel Ortom, Bukola Saraki and Ayu himself should look for ways to strengthen the opposition party in the region ahead of the 2023 general elections.


Share this on WhatsApp