Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Although the 2023 rivers state Governorship election is not due anytime soon,there are top politicians interested in taking over from the incumbent Governor Nyesom wike. Notable among them are:
1. Engineer Tele Ikuru
Telenyem Renner Ikuru,55,popularly known as Tele Ikuru was born on 24th of February 1966, Is an engineer and well-known politician. He was a Two-term Commissioner under the Ex-governor Peter Odili-led Administration before his emergence as Deputy Governor of rivers state in 2007 under the platform of People Democratic Party(PDP) with Governor Celestine omehia.However after the court annulled omehia’s election that year, he was selected to serve under Governor chibuike Amaechi and was reelected to the office in 2011, serving until 2015.
2. Dr Abiye Samuel Sekibo
Dr Abiye Samuel Precious Sekibo,63, was born in 1958 in okirika, Rivers state, is a Nigerian doctor and politician who has contributed to the political affairs of rivers state. He was appointed a special assistant to the Governor of Rivers state, and served as the secretary to the rivers state government (1999-2003).However he was later nominated and screened by the senate of federal republic of Nigeria, and appointed as the minister of transportation in July 2003, under the cabinet of president Olusegun Obasanjo, a position he held until 2007.
3. Dr. Tammy Danagogo
Tamunobaabo Wenike Danagogo popularly known as Tammy Danagogo, 50, is a Nigerian politician, lawyer who has contributed to rivers state government. He was the minister of sports in the federal republic of Nigeria during president Goodluck Jonathan Administration. He’s a member of People Democratic Party (PDP).Presently Tammy Danagogo has been the secretary to the state Government of Rivers state since May 2019.
4. Dakuku Peterside
Dakuku Peterside was born on 31 of December 1970,is a prominent Nigerian politician, columnist, leadership coach and Organizational development expert.Dr dakuku Peterside is the immediate past Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA).However, he was a former member of the National assembly of Nigeria (2011-2015). He’s an active member of All Progressive Congress (APC).
5. Senator magnus Abe
Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, was born on the 24th of may 1965, is a Nigerian politician who served as a senator for the rivers south east senatorial district of Rivers state, Nigeria. However, he was first elected to the Nigerian senate in 2011 and again on a rerun poll in December 2016.He’s a member of All Progressive Congress (APC). He served as SSG during the first tenure of ex Governor Rotimi Amaechi.


Share this on WhatsApp