Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






Deji Adeyanju, a well- known Nigerian activist, claims that the All Progressives Congress’ s (APC) presidential ticket for 2023 will go to the South- South, Daily Trust report.
Adeyanju made the allegation on his Twitter page on Thursday, where he divulged astounding details regarding the future APC presidential candidate.
Adeyanju stated the APC is considering handing its presidential ticket to an Igbo candidate beside photos of Rotimi Amaechi and Godwin Emefiele.
According to Adeyanju, sources within the APC have informed him that the presidential ticket for 2023 will be refused to Asiwaju Tinubu and Yemi Osinbajo’ s camp.
” The APC presidential ticket is likely to go to the South- South, and the advantage that both have is that they are Igbo guys, ” the tweet said.
According to numerous APC sources, the South West will not get it. You heard it first from the ThiefNubu and Osinbajo camps, who will mourn and cry. ”
Former President Goodluck Jonathan, according to Adeyanju, has a better chance of winning the presidential election than Tinubu.
” In APC, they’ re going to show the ThiefNubu’ Tinubu pepper. ” He tweeted, ” Goodluck Jonathan has a better chance of earning an APC ticket than he does. ”
Remember that Kaduna State Governor Nasir El Rufai stated that the APC presidential candidate would come from the south.
The Governor stated that it is up to the APC’ s southern caucus to pick which section of the state the presidential candidate will represent.
On March 26th, the APC will hold its national convention.
ALSO READ: If El-rufai’s interview is anything to go by, APC has screened out South East from presidential slot
According to another report, the northern faction supports Amaechi as Buhari’ s successor.
The Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance has backed Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari (retd) in 2023.
According to the group, Amaechi, who is 56 years old, is free of the old age- related health issues that some aspirants face.
The group’ s National Coordinator, Bilal Dakiyak, told journalists in Abuja on Monday that Amaechi is the finest guy to keep President Buhari’ s momentum of diversification and economic transformation going.
He urged Amaechi, on the other hand, to make an official declaration of his intention to run for the country’ s top post as soon as possible.
”The process for selecting and ultimately electing this successor in the 2023 General Elections is already underway, ” he stated.
”The Coalition of Northern Youth for Good Governance prefers that the All Progressive Congress continue in office for the sake of continuity. ”
”As a result, Nigeria would not experience losses as a result of different political parties’ governments deciding not to carry out the programs and initiatives initiated by the previous administration. ”
It is well documented that Nigeria has suffered greatly due to a lack of government continuity. Tambuwal adds, ” I’ ll begin consultations on the presidency in 2023. ”
”As a result, we have rigorously evaluated the outstanding Nigerians who have expressed an interest in running for President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and we have decided on the Honourable Minister of Transport, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi.






Share this on WhatsApp