Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


As we keep our eyes on the interesting political year ahead of us, we remain expectant of any possible event that could shape the polity. Indeed, there will be men with different motives who are going to make things happen by virtue of their conduct. As of now, just a few who have shown interest but we know that as the time gets closer we will see numerous aspirants under different political platforms indicating interests as it has been in previous elections.

The Peoples Democratic party is one that many of us will want to observe carefully because we are expecting a tactical game plan from them. Issues such as zoning will be a big factor for the party and it can go a long way in determining their success at the polls. Just like the way we saw influx of opposition politicians into the PDP in the build up to 2019 general election, I won’t be surprised if a repeat of that occurs.

ALSO READ: 2023: 2 factors that may cause PDP to lose Southeast for the first time in 24 years
As the PDP keeps contemplating on the issue of zoning, many may probably think of the big names like Atiku and Saraki emerging as the preferred candidate due to the massive supporters and strong followership they have. However, politics can always surprise us at any time. While we may not underplay their political strength, we should also focus on some silent personalities in the party that will put a good showing. We may not hear about them at the moment but at the right time you will feel the magnitude of their influence.
Beyond the popular personalities like Saraki and Atiku who are likely to vie for the ticket let’s look at a political heavyweight that will likely push the duo aside.
Aminu Tambuwal is one of the smartest politicians we have in this country. He is the man that can face his fellow likely presidential aspirants within the party any day and any time. Tambuwal is just like that man with many big godfathers who will always push him to the top. Aminu may not be a talking type but he pretty knows how to play the game.
The Sokoto state born started as a member of the federal house of representative before suddenly emerging as the speaker of the green chamber. After his first term, he contested for the gubernatorial election in Sokoto state under the platform of the APC and won. Just after the completion of his first tenure, the young politician opted to run for presidency and joined his former party, the PDP. During the presidential primaries, he surprised many people by coming second after being beaten by former vice president Atiku Abubakar.
One thing about the man Tambuwal is that despite not having a perceived strong campaign team, he was still able to defeat the likes of Kwankwaso and Saraki. The ex lawmaker is just one of the silent formidable politicians we have in Nigeria which many don’t realise. His ability to quickly rise and move fast in the political hierarchy shows his smartness. Even when the position of the house speaker was zoned to the south west, the lawyer was still able to maneuver his way to assume the office.
Though the south western governor is not much heard in the media, he has strong political forces backing him up. Just like a few others in his field, he has had reasons to change political part’s several times for election purposes. Even at Aminu’s young age, he has made so many political achievements.
ALSO READ: 2 Southern states the PDP may reclaim from APC in 2023
Note worthy is that the Sokoto state Governor is a very close friend of Nyeson wike of Rivers state who hapens to be one of the top PDP allies and many other influential figures. In fact, it was speculated that Wike personally fought to see that he emerged as the flag bearer so that after his tenure as governor, he could be vice president under him. He is the kind of politician that rides on the cover of godfathers. We have not yet seen the end of Mr. Tambuwal because in 2023 he could be coming out more stronger.
His good showing in the last primaries despite not being ‘popular’ so to speak is an indication of his strength. It also implies that he could do better and possibly knock out tough contenders for the job. The ex legislative leader is one who works behind the scene and knows the right time to probably declare his interest and hit the ground running. Many of the southern politicians actually chose him as their preferred choice during the conduct of the party’s primaries. Indeed, Rt Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is a man to watch out for!


Share this on WhatsApp