Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The emergence of two Governorship Candidates, in the just concluded Peoples Democratic Party PDP Governorship Primary Election, may slim the winning Chances of the Party in the forthcoming Governorship Election in the State.

It was reliably gathered, that the Leaders of the Party conducted Parallel Congress at two different venues. One of the Governorship Candidate of the Party, Prince Dotun Babayemi, emerged as Governorship Candidate of the Party, conducted at the Wocdiv centre in Osogbo.
Meanwhile, The Governorship Candidate of the Party in the last Governorship Election, Senator Nurudeen Ademola Adeleke, emerged as the Governorship Candidate in the Primary Election, conducted at Stadium in Osogbo.
It was also gathered that the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, attended the two Primary Election, conducted by the Party at two different venues in the state.However, The emergence of the two Governorship Candidates of the PDP in Osun State, may affect the chances of winning the forthcoming Governorship Election of the Party in the State.
ALSO READ: Activist Deji Adeyanju reacts after court sacked gov Dave Umahi
The reason is that, there is no Governorship Candidate, that would later emerge and such Candidate will get the support of the other Candidate. Though, the Party may later settle the crisis but the Party will find it difficult to the Governorship Election in the state.
It should be recalled that Prominent Leaders are supporting each of the Governorship Candidates. For instance, The Former Governor of the state, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, The Former National Deputy Chairman in Southwest, Alhaji Shuaib Oyedokun, Chief Wale Oladipo, Dr Olu Alabi and others are behind Prince Dotun Babayemi
Meanwhile, The PDP State Chairman, Hon Sunday Bisi, Bunmi Jenyo, Alhaji Gani Olaoluwa, Senator Fadahunsi, all the state PDP House of Assembly members Among others, are supporting Senator Ademola Adeleke.
However, it will be difficult for the Governorship Aspirants to work with each other, in the forthcoming Governorship Election, if at all the Leaders of the Party, are able to settle the crisis before the forthcoming Governorship Election.

It should be recalled, there is crisis in Osun chapter of APC, and the impressions of the People, is that PDP will make use of opportunities of the Crisis in APC, to win the forthcoming Governorship Election in the state, but with the new crisis in PDP, it doesn’t seem the Party is serious to win the forthcoming Governorship Election.
This is just an opinion, anyone having contrary Opinions should criticize the write up constructively without insults. Kindly Like, Share and comment reasonably.


Share this on WhatsApp