Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
 
One of the passengers of the Abuja-Kaduna train who survived Monday’s terrorist attack, has narrated how he survived the horrible experience.
The passenger, who survived the attack, told journalists on phone that while in transit, “We heard a loud bang. A bomb exploded.”
According to him, “the earth shook and within the twinkle of an eye, it was gunshots everywhere.”
He said passengers in the train who were about a thousand, fell on each other when the train derailed.
“The terrorists surrounded the coaches and shot sporadically.
Many were wounded. Some were hit by bullets as the terrorists closed in, trying to infiltrate the coaches.
READ ALSO: Shehu Sani reveals what a survivor of the Kaduna-Abuja train attack told him about the attack
“As the confusion heightened, many ran into the bushes on both sides of the track. It was by the will of Allah that I survived,” he said.
Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has suspended its operation on the route following the attack.
The Kaduna State Government said on Tuesday that the “evacuation of passengers on the trapped Kaduna-bound train from Abuja has been concluded this morning by security forces, officials of Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and Nigerian Red Cross.”
Samuel Aruwan , the Commissioner, Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Kaduna State, issued on statement, explaining that “passengers who sustained injuries, and other fatalities, have been moved to hospitals.”
According to him,”passengers were evacuated from different hard-to-reach areas in forests and rocky locations in Audujongom, off the Kaduna-Abuja Road.”
“As stated yesterday, the Kaduna State Government is still liaising with the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to ascertain the list from the passengers manifest for efficient tracking.”
“Governor Nasir El-Rufai who commended all those who participated in the evacuation, appealed to the hospitals to attend to the victims diligently.”
“The Governor also directed the Ministry of Health to be in contact with the hospitals as government will bear the cost of their treatment. “As of the time of this update, search-and-rescue operations are in progress.”
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp