Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) held its national convention successfully on Saturday where members of the National Working Committee (NWC) were elected. In attempt to contain the raging crisis in the party, President Muhammadu Buhari persuaded APC leaders to adopt consensus in the election of the NWC members. Accordingly, the national chairman, national secretary and other NWC members were determined before the national convention held. Some APC leaders urged President Buhari to endorse a national chairman, promising to support whosoever the president endorses.
The President endured Senator Abdullahi Adamu, former Governor of Nasarawa State, for national chairman, and every other went the president’s way.
The APC NWC was dissolved by the NEC about one year and nine months ago, when Adams Oshiomhole was removed in June 2020.
Adamu was subsequently declared APC national chairman unopposed at the national convention on Saturday at the Eagles Square, Abuja.
Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, Chairman of the Electoral Committee, declared Adamu winner, even without ballots, though confirmed through voice endorsement.
Other aspirants for the national chairman, who include Senator George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs; Senator Tanko Al-Makura, former Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari of Zamfara State, Senator Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha, and Muhammed Etsu, withdrew from the chairmanship contest at the convention venue. Two other contestants, including Ali Modu Sherrif had earlier withdrawn from the chairmanship race after it was zones to the north central, before president Buhari narrowed it to Nasarawa State.
Senator Akume had in a withdrawal letter stated: “May I kindly refer to the appeal by Mr. President for the chairmanship aspirants of our great party to agree to a consensus arrangement wherein our colleague H.E. Sen. Abdullahi Adamu is made our consensus candidate for the chairmanship position and forward letters of withdrawal from the under listed aspirants.”
More than 7,000 delegates participated in APC National Convention.
Subsequently, Senator Iyiola Omisore from Osun State was confirmed National Secretary.
Emma Eneukwu, Enugu, confirmed as Deputy National Chairman (south).
Senator Abubakar Kyari was confirmed Deputy National Chairman (North)
Muhazu Bawa Rijau from Niger State was confirmed National Vice-Chairman (North Central).
Salihu Lukman from Kaduna State confirmed National Vice-Chairman (North-West).
Bashir Usman Gumel, Jigawa, National Financial Secretary.
Ahmed El-Marzuk, Katsina, National Legal Adviser.
Christopher Akpan was confirmed Deputy National Welfare Secretary.
Temidayo Israel Abdullahi was confirmed National Youth Leader.
Zainab Abubakar Ibrahim from Taraba State was confirmed Deputy National Women Leader.
Yakubu Murtala Ajaka, Kogi, Deputy National Publicity Secretary.
Hamma-Adama Ali Kumo, Gombe, Deputy National Financial Secretary.
Omorede Osifo, Edo, Deputy National Treasurer.
Fetus Fuanter, Plateau, as Deputy National Secretary.
Agunwa Anekwe confirmed National Ex-officio (South-East).
Others include Ayo Afolabi confirmed Zonal Publicity Secretary (South-West).
Musa Mailafia, Zonal Publicity Secretary (North-West).
Lamido Mohammed, Zonal Secretary (North-East).
Blessing Agbome from Edo State, Zonal Organizing Secretary (South-South)
Isma’il Kolawole Majoro from Oyo, Zonal Legal Adviser (South-West).
Barrister Chukwuemeka. Zonal Legal Adviser (South-South).
Mayor Ogbona Earnest from Ebonyi State, Zonal Legal Adviser (South-East).
Bashir Usaini Dutse from Jigawa, Zonal Legal Adviser (North-West).
Dauda Chakpo from Taraba, Zonal Legal Adviser (North-East).
Hadiza Aliyu from Kogi, Zonal Legal Adviser (North Central).
Bello Goronyo from Sokoto, Zonal Secretary (North-West).
Yakubu Mohammed Adamu from FCT, Zonal Secretary, North Central.
Bunmi Oriniowo, Ekiti, National Ex-officio, South-West.
Diriwari Akedewei, Bayelsa, National Ex-officio, South-South.
Allyu Ahmed Yako, Kano, National Ex-officio, North-West.
Oluwatoyin Opawuye, Kwara, National Ex-officio North Central.
Jamaluddeen Kabir, Zamfara, Deputy National Youth Leader, among others.
 
Share this on WhatsApp