Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
It’s been more than a week since Vladimir Putin’s Russian troops invaded Ukraine and the country has been turned into a battlefield. The Russian troops are trying to seize some of the major cities in the country while the Ukrainian resistance forces are repelling some of their attacks in the city. Civilians are fleeing the country to avoid being casualties in the conflict. With both countries far from agreeing to a ceasefire, it’s not known how long the war will last.


According to the latest reports, The Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria has issued a statement saying that Nigerians who are willing to travel to Ukraine to fight Russian forces must be willing to provide $1,000 (about N580,000) for their ticket and visa. The embassy said this after scores of Nigerian men converged on its premises in Abuja on Thursday morning expressing their readiness to join the Ukrainian army in the fight against Russia.
In a brief interview with The PUNCH newspaper, the Second Secretary at the Ukrainian Embassy to Nigeria, Bohdan Soltys, confirmed that $1,000 would be needed by Nigerian volunteers. In his words…
ALSO READ: Nigerians storm Ukraine embassy to volunteer to fight for Ukraine
It is good that people are volunteering to join the army of another country. It is a normal international practice. Of course, for us (Ukrainians), it is an expression of support that we do appreciate. For now, no one has gone. We have received hundreds of applications from the people who said they are willing to join the Ukrainian forces. We have sent lists to the government but I cannot tell you what will happen in the next few days.
Right now, you cannot fly to Ukraine directly by air. The only way you can fly is to countries that share a border with Ukraine. All these countries are part of the European Union and Nigerians will need visas to visit these countries. So, it is a big obstacle, to be honest. You cannot fly directly to Ukraine. You will have to go to Poland or Hungary.”


Share this on WhatsApp