Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveNollywood actor, Olanrewaju James, also known as Baba Ijesha, told an Ikeja Special Offences Court on Friday, that comedienne Damilola Adekoya, alias Princess, was his lover.
NAN reports that the actor said this as he testified as the second defence witness for alleged defilement of Princess 14-year-old foster daughter.
Led in evidence by defence counsel, Mr. Dada Awosika (SAN), Baba Ijesha said, “We were dating, my lord; We slept together, I touched her, she touched me, she kissed me and I kissed her.”
The defendant also informed the court how he allegedly met the entertainer.
He said he received a phone call from Princess while he was working as an On-Air-Personality with Radio Lagos and LTV 8.
“She told me to promote her on my programme. That’s how we started.
“Princess told me she wanted to join the Yoruba section because the English section is bad. She said Ali Baba is bad, Buchi is bad.
“She also asked that I introduce her to my producer,” he said.
The defendant said that in the course of the relationship, he promised to promote her.
Narrating what transpired in 2014, the day he allegedly sexually molested Princess’s foster daughter with a car key, Baba Ijesha said that in October 2014, a day after he returned from visiting his wife in the United Kingdom, he got a phone call from Princess.
The suspect claimed Princess told him she was battling ill-health and needed some fruits.
According to him, he got some fruits and took them to her home.
“Immediately I opened the door, I saw Princess half-naked and I told her that I was outside, your fruit is inside the car.
“Few minutes after, the young girl (Princess’s foster daughter) came to pick the fruits from the car; and she left,” he said.
Director of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Dr. Jide Martins, said Baba Ijesha denied defiling the minor in 2014 with his car key during a visit to her foster mother’s home.
He, however, admitted knowing the victim since she was seven years old.
“Princess is not my benefactor, she’s the one who benefitted from me,” he said.
Baba Ijesha, almost in tears during the cross-examination, said that the evidence he gave in court in his defence was not an afterthought.
He described Princess as a jilted lover, saying that much evidence existed to show that he and Princess were in a relationship, though such evidence was not tendered in court.
Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo, delivering judgement, adjourned the case until March 11 for continuation of defence.
Baba Ijesha is facing a six-count charge bordering on sexual assault, indecent treatment of a child and, attempted sexual assault by penetration.
Share this on WhatsApp