Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have said they will support whoever President Muhammadu Buhari supports at the forthcoming national convention of the party slated for Saturday, March 26.


The governors were led to the meeting by the chairman of the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni.
The chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu, told State House correspondents after the meeting that they will support any process that would lead to a consensus in choosing the party officials.
Meanwhile, former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and a top contender for the position of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said contrary to media reports, he was not endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari.
Adamu made the clarification in Keffi while he was playing host to officials of the party at the Local Government level at his Keffi country home, on Saturday.
Recall, during the last meeting of the APC , it was gathered that the president had endorsed Senator Adamu and that the announcement did not go down well with the party’s stakeholders and state governors.
It will be recalled that some governors, in a statement, said Senator Adamu is not a core member of the party, saying someone who knows the ins and outs of the party should be the one to head the party and not a former member of PDP.
The governors also alleged that his performance as the chairman of the APC reconciliation committee was also not encouraging to give him the mandate.
In another development, Former Borno State governor, Ali Modu Sheriff, has said he will support whoever President Muhammadu Buhari or the All Progressives Congress (APC) chooses as the party’s national chairmanship candidate.
Alimodu Sheriff, who said he is not aware of the President’s endorsement of any candidate, assured that he is still in the race for the position.
The former governor made the statement while addressing journalists on Wednesday.
Mr Sheriff’s comments come about a week after the APC released the agreed zoning formula for different positions ahead of its national convention holding later this month.
The APC zoned the position of the National chairman to the North-Central geopolitical zone.
Describing the zoning formula as rumours, the former Borno governor insisted that he would wait for president Muhammadu Buhari to endorse a candidate.
He further said he is totally committed to working with anyone to reposition the party towards actualising resounding victory in the 2023 general elections and beyond.


Share this on WhatsApp