Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Do you know that the health of your eyes is connected to the health of your blood vessels and heart? Both your heart’s health and your vision can be affected by what you eat and drink.

1. Fried Foods
Trans fats used in deep-fried foods raise LDL cholesterol levels, increasing the risk of heart disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes. Toxic free radicals are also created by trans fat. And this is linked to AMD and diabetic retinopathy.
Eating citrus fruits, tomatoes, and red bell peppers is a great way to fight the effects of free radicals, which have been linked to an increased risk of cancer.
2. Margarine
Margarine is made with vegetable oils and contains unsaturated “healthy” fats. It may be healthier for you than butter. In addition, trans fat, which elevates cholesterol levels and increases the risk of heart disease and eye problems, is found in some margarine.
ALSO READ: Is IMF taking Nigeria to promised land?
There is a correlation between the amount of trans fat in margarine and its solidity. You can use spreads or liquids instead of sticks.
3. Ready-to-Eat Foods
It is not uncommon for prepackaged foods such as soup, tomato sauce, and canned products to contain sodium levels that are as much as seventy-five percent higher than recommended.
By limiting your intake of these items, you can lessen your risk of developing high blood pressure and connected eye conditions. Natural flavour enhancers such as herbs and spices can be added to your diet for a healthy eye.
4. Sugary Drinks
Sugar is abundant in soda, sports and energy drinks, lemonade, and a host of other sweetened beverages. Aside from that, they’re a major source of calories and added sugars, as well. Type 2 diabetes and heart disease are more likely if you consume a lot of sugar in your diet.
ALSO READ: More trouble for Abba Kyari as victim demands enforcement of N48m judgment debt
Related eye problems such as diabetic retinopathy and AMD can result from this. Drinking water is the healthiest and best option to maintain your eye health.
5. Pasta and Bread
The major cause of vision loss in the elderly is age-related macular degeneration (AMD), which has been linked to simple carbs like white bread and pasta. The reason for this is that this form of carb is easily absorbed by the body. Blood sugar levels rise as a result of this.
6. Shellfish
If you eat fish and shellfish in moderation, you don’t have to worry about mercury. At high levels, it can cause eye damage and other major health issues, especially for pregnant women and nursing mothers.
7. Alcohol
Eye disease has been linked to the consumption of alcohol despite not being a meal. Cataracts, a common disorder characterised by a clouded area in the lens of the eye, can develop early in life as a result of excessive alcohol consumption.
ALSO READ: Health benefits and side effects of eating late at night
8. Caffeine
It’s possible that the caffeine in your morning cup of coffee or tea will elevate your intraocular pressure (IOP). People with glaucoma or ocular hypertension (OHT) are more likely to experience an increase in eye pressure after consuming caffeine. Eye damage and even blindness can result from excessive intraocular pressure (IOP).


Share this on WhatsApp