Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Nigerian Presidency appears to be in increasing confusion over the woes and obvious hardship in the country. President Muhammdu Buhari in a new trend of blame game, is threatening the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with consequences of uprising over the hardship in the country from the failures of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the past seven years.
The President, therefore, threatened he would hold the PDP responsible for any violent uprising, “aimed at destabilizing the country.” This threat is being made in the face of the irredentist movements across the country from the northeast, northwest to the southwest and southeast.
The President in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, declared: “The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has given itself away as being interested only in the destabilization of the country, peradventure it could then sneak its way back to power.”
The President emphasized  that in less than 24 hours ‘the Department of State Services (DSS) raised alarm about sinister plots by some elements to cause disorder in the land, using the energy crisis as a smokescreen, the PDP issued a statement – “Our party fears that the situation is getting to a boiling point, and can trigger a nationwide agitation that might be worse than the October 2020 EndSARS, if not addressed immediately.”
The president declared: “Which patriotic political party or organization ever threatens its country with anarchy, social upheaval, and disorderliness, except one still smarting from its snout being yanked from the honeypot, as happened to PDP in 2015?
“But we wish to remind the now tepid opposition party that, it was Nigerians that gave it the boot seven years ago, and those same Nigerians have not forgotten the travails they experienced, at a time the country was awash with money: no power, no infrastructure, insurgents ran riot around the nation, and our collective patrimony was looted blind.
“Those same Nigerians are not ready for another PDP misrule, not now, and perhaps not for a long time to come.”
However, whatever the president or the APC government identified as misrule during the PDP regime has worsened in multiple folds in the APC regime, causing unnecessary hardship and difficulty in Nigeria.
However, the president argued that “rather than plot and encourage “agitation worse than October 2020 EndSARS,” which it may well be conceiving, the PDP should work for harmony and cohesion in the country if it ever understands such a concept.
“EndSARS signified murder, mayhem, mass destruction, even cannibalism. “PDP now wishes Nigeria something worse.”
President Buhari noted that a presidential aspirant of the PDP has warned that the party would die by 2023 unless it wins the Number One position in the country.
He added: “And die it would, if the party wishes the country nothing, except something worse than EndSARS.”
Share this on WhatsApp