Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveBy Judith Ogbiko
The largest healing crusade in the world, Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris, in which billions of people participate with high expectations and fulfilment begins today, Friday, March 18, 2022. The March 2022 edition of the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris has been ordained to widen the horizon of the manifestation of the power of God through the Man of God to over 100 countries of the world through several infotech channels.
The programme which begins this Friday evening will run through Saturday into Sunday, a three-day cycle of theefficacy of the power of God through His Words in the lives of billions of people across the world. 
 
The Zonal Director of Christ Embassy, Accra Zone, and Assistant Secretary General of Loveworld, Pastor Biodun Lawal, speaking on Healing Streams TV, relayed a citation: “This is that which was spoken of by Prophet Joel. He said it will come to pass in the last days that the Lord will pour out His Spirit upon all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams. Prophet Joel said it, Peter quoted him, and this is what we are seeing today.”
Billions of people are of high expectations of the outpouring of the Spirit, and manifestation of miracles in countless cities, towns, and villages all over the world.
Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris permeates diverse geographical, cultural, and political territories globally.
The programme is already generating curiosity such that believers in tehri millions all over the world participate actively in creating awareness, sharing the great news of the event through billboards, advertorials on buses, trains, and other sources public awareness, including reaching out to every home, street, community, city, and every nation, keeping people in wait of expectations for the great moments with Pastor Chris.
 
The testimonies of the past editions have been the stimulating factor for large participation of people all over the world in the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris. It brings hope to the sick, the oppressed or the abandoned. 
 
A participant who received divine touch in the previous programme, Niklaas Titus from Dysselsdorp, South Africatestified to an immediate healing during the programme.Niklaas narrated that for several years, he suffered from severe arthritis which caused him constant pains and compelling him to move around with crutches. 
An outreach team met Nicholas and after reading the Healing to the Nations Magazine with him, they prayed with him, anddeclared healing over his body. After the prayer session, Nicholas cast the crutches aside and began to walk unaided for the first time in years, miraculously healed by the power of God.
 
Mirabel Onyeka was in a church service on a Sunday when her pastor spoke about the Healing Streams, and she felt an urge to give. After struggling within herself for a while, she pulled out her phone and made the transfer. Later that day, she was on the phone with her mother who had been unable to move the left side of her body on account of a stroke several years ago. Then, something spectacular happened.
Elisiva Falekaono was deaf for 17 years. This made communication and getting through each day a difficult task. She needed constant support from her family. This was her condition until she took a step of faith and participated in the Healing Streams Live Healing Services last year. She touched her ears while Pastor Chris prayed, and they popped open. Her hearing is perfect now. Glory to God!
The Live Healing Services is usually a divine season of signs and wonders, and watermarked miracles and testimonies. The power of God manifests among those in need of healing from various infections, such as Paralysis, cancer, HIV, tuberculosis, mental disorders, and all manner of sicknesses and diseases.
Over 6.5 billion people participated in the last edition of the healing services in October 2021. The testimonies that followed have propelled confidence of many more participants in their expectations. 
Bishop Janice Best of the United States of America, she eagerly shares her expectations: “I am anticipating an increase in miracles and healing of all manner of sicknesses and diseases. “During the last edition, we saw people get healed and I am looking forward to this again, and I urge you to join in and partake. Get ready to receive and carry healing grace to your world.”
The testimonies from the past editions provide hope of what is to come in the March 2022 edition of the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris. According to Evangelist Dr. Eddy Owase, a senior minister of the Healing School: “Anyone anywhere can receive a miracle;” “Testimonies are the Word of God clothed within stories. When they are told, they communicate faith and power for the miraculous.”
Billions of world population are inspired by the testimonies as the March 2022 edition begin at 6.00pm (GMT+1) today,Friday. 
The guide for the participation is provided below: log on to www.healingstreams.tv on your device, and you will see the things written in the Gospels happen before your eyes. Create your virtual center at www.healingstreams.tv/virtual and share this with your online communities.
Get set for three days of the supernatural manifestations and divine demonstrations. Register at www.healingstreams.tv/3days.
Further enquiries, check info@healingstreams.com
 
Share this on WhatsApp