Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, has continued to gain momentum in the lobby for the 2023 presidential race, even without known identity of belonging to any political party. The consternation is that support for Emefiele for the 2023 presidential race is preponderantly coming from the north. Several northern groups have been in the vanguard of mobilizing support for the CBN governor for the forthcoming presidential election, projecting Emefiele as a preferred Igbo candidate.
Joining the league of northern youths supporters of Emefiele, the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) is urging Nigerians to support Emefiele for president towards promoting the unity, economy and progress of the country.
Director-General of the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF), Ibrahim Bature, during a road walk by the group in Minna at the weekend to mobilise support for Emefiele, declared support for an Igbo president in 2023 for fairness and justice.
The Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) Director-General emphasized that the CBN Governor, Emefiele, has shown he has capacity to govern Nigeria. Bature appealed to northerners and Nigerians to support Emefiele because of the policies with which he has rejuvenated the nation’s economy, especially the agricultural sector, now making huge contributions to the GDP.
Bature expressed optimism that the CBN governor being a financial expert, and an economist, “will surely replicate those impactful policies in other sectors of the economy for the betterment of the country.”
The PRO of the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF, Aliyu Mohammed, declared that Emefiele is “a southerner with a northern heart, the Champion of Northern Renaissance, hence, the need to declare 100 percent support for the green icon, who is a liberator of the northern people.”
The Niger State Coordinator, Mohammed Mohammed, highlighted some of the achievements the Emefiele administration as CBN governor, which said impacted positively on women, youths, and vulnerable Nigerians.
Meanwhile, Emefiele is yet to officially declared for the 2023 presidential race; he has not indicated membership of any political party in the country.
National Daily will, however, dig deeper to unravel the forces behind the ad hoc northern groups mobilizing support for the CBN governor.
Share this on WhatsApp