Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveExpose corp members to befitting challenges, Lagos NYSC tasks employers.
 
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has tasked employers to expose corps members to befitting challenges during the service year.
Mr Eddy Megwa, Lagos State Coordinator of NYSC, made the remark on Tuesday at the passing out of 2022 Batch A, Steam held at its Orientation Camp, Iyana-Ipaja, Lagos.
“Over the years, we have always said that our youths are the leaders of tomorrow, but NYSC is making a statement that Nigerian youths of today are ready.
“They are strong, intelligent, viral and good to go by way of being leaders of the present day Nigeria, that is how they can turn the paradigm of our country to greatness.
“Today, we have 2262 corps members who have successfully completed their three weeks orientation programme and exercise. I, therefore, call on core employers to give them befitting challenges so they can perform credibly.
“I have no doubt that you all are going to deliver and prove yourselves worthy as you move into the public and into your places of primary assignment in the City of Excellence,” he added.
Megwa commended Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his untiring efforts at ensuring that corp members posted in the state got preferential treatment.
“But like Oliver Twist, we will keep on requesting that you up your game sir by increasing allowance of the corps members posted in ministries, agencies and departments in Lagos,” he said.
He also appealed to the state government to periodically upgrade facilities at the orientation camp to make it conducive for camping programmes for corp members deployed in the state.
“We are passionately appealing to Lagosians to accept these youths with warm hands, in particular the landlords should show them mercy by way of rent for the one year they spend,” he noted.
Megwa urged the corps members to remain good ambassadors of the scheme, warning them to be security conscious and avoid travelling at night.
“You must endeavour to protect yourselves and observe the dos and don’ts of the land,” he said.
He commended the NCDC and other sister agencies for collaborating with NYSC in conducting free COVID-19 test for corps members, staff and paramilitaries during the just concluded orientation camp.
Ugochukwu Deborah from Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Odubanjo Adedolapo and Asemota Precious from Covenant University got commendation certificates for putting in their best as Corp Camp Directors during the three weeks orientation exercise.
Share this on WhatsApp