Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Senator Shehu Sani was taken aback by the public outrage over the squabble between Bianca Ojukwu and Ebele, wife of former Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State at the inauguration of Governor Charles Chukwuma Soludo in Awka. Senator Sani in a tweet indicated that he was prepared for caustic criticism of the attacker but was constrained after he read that Bianca slapped the wife of the former governor at a public function.
The senator narrated how he met Bianca in a flight to Europe many years ago.
Senator Shehi Sani on his official twitter handle @ShehuSani stated: “I met Bianca on flight years ago when she was traveling to Europe to meet her husband, the late Ikemba, who was then on admission. I promised to go and see him but couldn’t because of the change of schedule.
“I thought she was slapped so that I’ll blast the ‘slapper’; now, I just prayed for her.”
Bianca, wife of late Odumegwu Chukwuemeka Ojukwu, on Arise News Television explained that Ebele Obiano was noticeably absent when the inauguration of the governor started, though, arrived one hour into the inauguration. Bianca said she was not aware of the arrival of the former governor’s wife who suddenly confronted her if she was at the inauguration to celebrate their last day in office. Bianca said she tried to tolerate and restrain Ebele from the public insult but the former governor’s wife confronted her the more. Then she responded in self-defence.
Bianca added that she noticed Ebele was drunk.
Bianca highlighted: “Ebele Obiano was noticeably absent when the inauguration of the governor started, but arrived an hour later. I did not pay any attention to her arrival. Surprisingly, she walked towards me and I thought she was coming to greet me. Instead, she verbally attacked me with her voice raised, taunting me, and asking me what I was there to do, using unprintable, vile language.
“I left her but she kept on aggressively putting her hand on my shoulders and shouting.
“While I ignored her verbal onslaught as advised by people sitting around me, I requested twice that she refrains from touching me with her hands. She proceeded to do so yet again and tried to touch my head and remove my head tie.
“It was at that point I stood up to defend myself and gave her a dirty slap to stop her from attacking me.
“As she made it towards me, I removed her wig, she then held on to her wig with her two hands and tried to take the wig away from me.
“While people tried to separate us, I was surprised by the stench of whisky in Ebelechukwu’s breath at such an early hour of the day.
“How could the first lady be so drunk at that time? I stayed back to watch the ceremony till the end and left with my dignity intact.”
Perhaps, Senator Shehu Sani may need to read Bianca’s explanation, and may be have a change of mind.
Share this on WhatsApp