Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Former Governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, was recently arrested at the airport while he was leaving the country just some moments after handing over the government to a new administration.
The arrest of Obiano has elicited several reactions as some persons are questioning whether the governor will face his charges and whether he will be subsequently jailed if he is found guilty.
Accordingly, this article will look at some other former Nigerian governors who have been jailed after the end of their tenures for involving in corruption.
1. Diepreye Alamieyeseigha
The former governor of Bayelsa State was found guilty of the corruption charges levied against him and was subsequently imprisoned.

Alamieyeseigha was arrested after he tried to sneak into the country while dressed as a woman, he was then consequently charged with offences bordering on corruption. After spending close to two years in prison while awaiting his trial, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha was sentenced to two years in prison. He spent about eight days in jail.
2. James Ibori
Former Governor James Ibori of Delta State was charged and convicted for stealing and diverting his state funds. The conviction was carried out by a London judge because a part of the offence took place in England.

Ibori was charged with stealing state funds amounting to about $250 million. He was subsequently convicted to 13 years in prison, even though he ended up serving about 4 years.
3. Orji Uzor Kalu
Senator Orji Uzor Kalu of Abia State faced prosecution for embezzling funds amounting to over 7 Billion Naira, he was subsequently convicted for the offence by a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos State.

The former Abia State Governor then spent some time in jail before his conviction was nullified by the Court of Appeal and Kalu regained his freedom.
4. Joshua Dariye
Joshua Dariye of Plateau State is another former Governor who has had a taste of jail after his tenure for offences bordering on corruption while he was in office.

After his tenure, Dariye was prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for money laundering and diversion of public funds. He was later sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, a sentence that he is currently serving in jail.


Share this on WhatsApp