Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveUNFPA reiterates commitment to support Adamawa.
 
Ulla Mueller, the Country Representative of UN Population Fund (UNFPA) has reiterated the fund’s commitment to support Adamawa Government to address the challenge of school dropout among young girls.
Mueller stated this in an interview with newsmen on the sideline of the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration in Yola on Tuesday.
Annually marked on March 8 around the globe, IWD is a day set aside by the UN to bring issues that affect women and girls to the front burner and raise global consciousness on such matters so as to proffer possible solutions to them.
The day is also an opportunity for women and girls to raise their voices and remind the world about their contributions and the different roles they play toward nation building.
The 2022 IWD has “BreakTheBias” as hashtag.
The UNFPA boss said early marriage, considered as a form of Gender-Based Violence (GBV), contribute to the high number of school dropout among young girls, hence the need to stop the practice.
She added that “I want to use this opportunity to plead with Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa and
his commissioners to let us find ways where we can work together.
“UNFPA is ready to support Adamawa to reduce the number of school dropout among girls.
“We can also contribute to saving lives to achieve sustainable development and sustainable future.”
According to her, she celebrated the 2022 IWD in Adamawa because of continued progress in UNFPA programmes in the state in the last 12 months.
“I commend Gov. Fintiri for being the first in the North East to domesticate and sign the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act.
“It is important for women and girls to access justice and forensic laboratory,” she added.
She further urged Fintiri to release budgeted funds for the sector for more successes and sustainable development.
The National Daily reports that the country representative celebrated the day with hundreds of women and young with presentations by stakeholders, cultural dance and drama presentation.
Share this on WhatsApp