Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Health is wealth and for any man to have a prolonged and healthy life, we must take good care of our health. While so many people are going here and there to seek medical attention to maintain their health, it is also very important to know that, there are many benefits to be derived from some natural foods and thereby safe the cost to be incurred on frequent visits to the medical centers.
One of those naturally growing food that is embedded with a lot of health benefits is “Onion”. Onion has been the choice of many people who wants to stay healthy and live a disease-free life as it has great medicinal properties. According to WebMD, onions contains strong vitamins and mineral, such as Vitamin C, Vitamin B6, Potassium, Manganese, and Copper. Let’s note that, it is very best to eat raw onions than cooked ones, it has been gathered that, in a half cup of chopped white onions, we have, Calories (32 grams), fat (0 grams), fiber (1 gram), protein (1 gram), sugar (3grams).
Below are 6 of those numerous benefits embedded in eating raw onions.
1. It lowers the risk of heart diseases: Onions possess so many antioxidants and a compound known as quercetin that is very much enough for the reduction of high blood pressure and due to its anti-inflammatory properties, it has the ability to war against heart diseases even at a chronic level.
2. It immunizes against cancer: According to inoncology.com, there is the presence of a compound in onion known as sulfuric compound and yet another one called flavonoid antioxidant which has the capabilities of reducing being getting infected with colorectal cancer.
3. It’s aids improvements in digestive health: Onions have been proved by many health concerned bodies to be very good for the guts because it has been said to contain very rich fibre and probiotics. These can help sustain immunity and improve the digestive health of the body.
4. It reduces the risk of being broken down with stroke: Onions contain organic sulfur compounds which will help reduce the level of cholesterol that could be present in the body. This sulfur is the reason behind the strong and sharp taste and smell of onion. More so, according to WebMD, onions may also help in reducing the risk for stroke, this is because it is very active in breaking down blood clots. This is another reason why it could reduce the risk of heart disease.
5. It helps to control diabetes: Both the quercetin and organic sulfur compounds found in onions are known to promote insulin production, this insulin is well needed by a person with high blood sugar, otherwise known as diabetes, in improving their health. Also, there is the presence of quercetin and sulfur, these two are compounds that are very useful for diabetic patients, the reason being that they possess anti-diabetic properties.
6. It improves bone health: Onions have the capability of aiding stronger bone, reducing bone loss, and boosting bone density, because of the kind of compounds embedded in them.


Share this on WhatsApp