Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
There are emerging indications of mild mi-up in the Nigerian presidency as President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday embarked on a medical trip to London, the United Kingdom (UK), without formal communication to the National Assembly transferring temporary power to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to act while he is away. The confusion germane to past experiences when principal officers of the presidency tell Nigerians that President Buhari can rule the country from anywhere. In some instances, principal officers in the presidency had to fly overseas to get the president sign certain policy decisions of the government.
Meanwhile, President Buhari departing Nigeria for London, the U.K. on Sunday verbally stated at the airport that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will be in charge while he is away.
President Buhari at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, boarding the presidential plane, Air Force 1, at the Presidential Wing, stated that Osinbajo will preside over the nation’s affairs for two weeks while he is away on a medical trip to London in the United Kingdom.
President Buhari, however, explained that further that he is not running the administration alone, saying that other key officials, including the vice president, the chief of staff, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), and others are carried along. The explanation rend to indicated multiple power sources in the presidency beside him.
President Buhari acknowledged the constitutional provisions on the vice president acting in the absence of the president but was silent on whether he has done what the constitution expects him to do to properly transit power to the vice president to a t in his absence.
According to President Buhari: “Well, I cannot claim to be doing the work alone. The government is fully represented; the vice president is there; constitutionally when I’m away, he’s in charge.”
President was scheduled to embark on a medical trip to London from Nairobi, Kenya, where he attended the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) 50th-anniversary event, but he returned to the country last Friday.
Share this on WhatsApp