Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dayo Israel, on Sunday called on his peers in the party and across the country to collaborate with him in moving the APC froward as well as promoting the interest of Nigerian youths.  The youth leader held victory party in Abuja on Sunday after the APC national convention where he was endorsed National Youth Leader of the APC.
Dayo Israel on Sunday morning declared after the national convention that there was “No Victor, No Vanquished” in the election of the APC National Youth Leader. He appealed to the unlucky aspirants to support him in working for the “progress of our party, the youth constituency and Nigeria as a whole.”
The APC National Youth Leader held a Thank You Reception in Abuja on Sunday evening to celebrate his victory.
Dayo Israel had stated: “It’s a New Dawn. Let me begin by thanking GOD, Almighty, who made the journey possible for me to emerge as the National Youth Leader of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) through your support.
“We came into the race with the sole objective to ‘spread greatness’ to all young people of our great party and Nigeria as a whole, through the office of the National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
“Friends, it was not an easy feat, neither do I take for granted the sacrifices from everyone including my lovely wife, family, friends, party members, co-aspirants and my leaders; but I am delighted that this victory is for us all.
“Let me state very unequivocally that this race presented No Victor, No Vanquished, just a representative, a servant leader to oversee your affairs! The party, APC belongs to all of us and I can assure you of inclusive leadership, carrying everyone along. We will work together, hand in hand to ensure the greatest good for the greatest number. This is what I will do with God on our side.”
He added: “Greatness is never achieved alone and it takes collective effort to experience collective growth. I have begun that step by collecting the manifestos of most of my co-aspirants and fusing them into our agenda; and by the Grace of God, I will reach out to them and other stakeholders in our implementation effort.
“In the light of the above, I call on my co-contestants, my brothers Ibrahim Alli-Balogun, Olalekan Smart Edwards, Dada Olusegun, and my sister Rinsola Abiola, all who gave a good account of themselves in the run-up to the national convention. Let’s come together because in unity we grow. We have a lot to of the fer for the progress of our party, the youth constituency and Nigeria as a whole.
“I have also set up a committee to help coordinate our first series of events and engagements with young stakeholders and I have approached most of my co-aspirants and blocs including support groups in Abuja to send a representative to serve on that committee. I would reach out to others to do the same.
“As an aspirant, I demonstrated my readiness to work with everyone by personally reaching out to all co-contestants. I held meetings with them. I also began the conversation of collaboration with them, to see how we can go into the convention with a united front. This is because I believe that collaboration is key.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp