Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Healing Streams Live Healing Services has become phenomenal in manifesting a divine mandate bestowed on Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, President of Loveworld Incorporated, also known as Christ Embassy. The healing services take believers into a season of intercession, communion with the throne of God, and liberation of believers from earthly burdens. Pastor Chris leads an anointed and spirit-filled intermediary team of the Ministry to interface with the Throne of Grace and the congregation to the supernatural realm bringing down the down of God upon the oppressed, afflicted and the sick. 
The Healing Streams Live Healing Services have significantly yielded results, culminating to myriads of miracles and testimonies over the years. The 2022 session is no exception. 
Preceding the March 18 to 20 2022 edition of the largest Live Healing Crusade in world history is the 24-hour of prayer, miracles and testimonies themed Healing School Online Prayer Conference, which held in February. The event with billions across over 100 nations participating elicited global prayer chain. Participants were led to the realm of the supernatural floating as saints of God, praying in the Spirit, and making heartfelt intercession for the lost, the broken, the sick, infirmed, and all nations of the earth. Indeed it was monumental in the impartation of the touch of God, made possible by the presence and manifestation of the Holy Spirit.
ALSO READ: Pastor Chris: God’s voice for global awakening
Specifically, the Healing School Online Prayer Conference commenced on Friday, February 4 at 6.00pm (GMT+1) with a session of worship, praise, and thanksgiving. Director of the Healing School, Pastor Deola Phillips, acquainted the participating global congregation, that prayer is “believers’ joyful response to the invitation of the Heavenly Father.” She, therefore, set the global congregation in motion, saying, “We will be praying in earnest fervency towards the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris and we are so excited.”
Senior pastors and other invited guests in the Panel of Discussants, relayed their inspirations and strategies for the Healing Streams Live Healing Services, electrifying the global congregation with testimonies of miracles they received from participation in previous editions. Their discussions raised new hopes of divine visitation and encouragement amongst the congregation.  
Expressing gratitude to God for divine manifestation in her life, Sonia, 55years, from Italy, narrated shesuffered from anorexia and bulimia for 40 years and was filled with fear and anxiety. She received divine touch while attending the July 2021 Healing Streams Live Healing Services; saying that she was freed instantly when Pastor Chris laid hands on her. 
Her weight is now up, she is healthy and happy with her life.
Another testimony relayed that a little boy, Samuel Oladokun, was diagnosed with Wilm’s tumor, a cancer of the kidneys that left him in terrible pain and with a massively swollen abdomen. Samuel was healed by the power of God during the healing services.
These testimonies lifted spirit of the global online congregation, resulting in roll out of miracles from nations of the world during the prayers. Again, those who received divine touch, could not hold back their joy of the miracle.
ALSO READ: Pastor Chris: The man the world must listen to
Norma writing from the Cayman Islands, highlighted: “I had been experiencing severe heart palpitations for more than three weeks. As Pastor Deola gave the word that the miracles had started, I received healing. The pain in my back disappeared and the palpitations ceased. Hallelujah!”
Also, Tina from Nicaragua testified: “As we were praying, Pastor Deola mentioned my mother’s case. For the past few years, my mother had been hearing noises in her head and in her ear but now she is completely fine.”
In preparation for the Healing Streams Live Healing Services in March, words of power proceeding from Man of God have set the stage for a glorious time, with clouds full of rain, and ready for outpouring to overflow the whole earth.With the assurance that “God answers when we pray, believers are advised to register for the Marchsession, being guided to visit www.healingstreams.tv/3daysfor registration as the manifesting divine mandate continues. 
 
Share this on WhatsApp