Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveTemitayo Olafisoye and Kayode Akinola have been coming from Ibadan to snatch kids in Lagos for money rituals, and they have been confidence in their strategy—a no-brainer.
Their last operation however failed, and ended in disaster.
The two criminals came to Omole Estate, Lagos, for something of a recon exercise last Sunday. Neighbours saw them loafing around a school compound. Nobody paid the two much attention.
But on Monday, a woman brought her kids to the school. Unknown to her as she pulled up in front of the school, Akinola and Olafisoye had staked out the building, and would strike out any moment.
The moment between coming down from the driver seat and opening the passenger seat doors for the schoolchildren was all the kidnappers needed.
Olafisoye simply jumped out of nowhere, hopped in the driver seat, and snapped the door locked, one of the private security guard in the estate said.
Now in the driver seat, children wondering in the back seat, his partner Akinola watching from a distance, Olafioye moved to gun the vehicle out of the estate.
The car was obedient.
The move showed lot of practice.
“We will kidnap and put the children inside a vehicle and take them away,” he told the security guard.
A mob was already formed by now, taking in his confession. The mother of the kids locked up in the vehicle raised the alarm that brought the crowd.
She screamed, jangling the key she took out of the ignition while she stepped out earlier. The car would not move, especially as the kid-snatcher appeared too dumb to hotwire it—supposing he even had the time.
By now, Akinola had disappeared. Why wouldn’t he? The car was surrounded as the owner kept shouting for help.
Fished out of the driver seat, Olafioye jerked down on his knees, pouring out his confession.
“I have kidnapped a lot of children around Berger, Iyana Ipaja, Ikotun, Iyana Iba. I am Temitayo Olafisoye, my friend is Kayode Akinola. We came from Apata area in Sango, Ibadan. We usually use the children for money rituals.”
The crowd got thicker, tilting their heads as they listened to the chiller, a video later circulated showed.
The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, confirmed the incident, adding that the case would be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, for further investigation.
 
Share this on WhatsApp