Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

There are indications, that some Governors under the Platform of the All Progressives Congress APC, in Southern region may not deliver the state for the Party in the forthcoming Governorship Election.
The reason is that some Governors are not Popular in their various states. It should be recalled that Some Governors dumped the Peoples Democratic Party for the All Progressives Congress APC.
However, Some APC Governors may find it difficult to deliver their states for their Party. One of the APC Governors in Southern region, who may not deliver his state for APC, is the Governor of Cross River State, Governor Ben Ayade.
It should be recalled that Governor Ayade was one of the PDP Governors, who dumped the Party for APC. Though, Governor Ayade defected to APC with his Loyalists in the state but with the look of things, the Governor may not deliver the state for APC.

ALSO READ: 3 influential politicians to benefit as APC zones presidential ticket to the southern region
The recent Bye Elections conducted in the state, had shown that if Governor Ben Ayade didn’t restrategize, he may not deliver the state for APC in the forthcoming Governorship Election.
It should be recalled that APC, won the Federal House of Assembly Election but PDP won the State House of Assembly Election. The outcome of the Election, had shown that the Governor may not deliver the state for APC.
The reason is that, APC won the Bye Election with very slim margin in the state, and the Party lost the House of Assembly Election to the PDP in the state.
The Governor may need to restrategise, ahead of the forthcoming Governorship Election, so that he can deliver the state for APC, with ease in the forthcoming Governorship Election.
ALSO READ: 3 Southern governors who may end up as PDP’s vice presidential candidate
Another Southern APC Governor, who may not deliver the state, for the Party in the forthcoming Governorship Election, is the Governor of Ebonyi State, Governor David Umahi.
Governor David Umahi may not deliver the state, because what happened in Cross River State Bye Election, may repeat itself in Ebonyi State in the forthcoming Governorship Election.
ALSO READ: 2023: 4 prominent Northern politicians to consider for VP slot
The reason is that some Prominent Leaders in the state, belong to PDP. Among them is the former Senate President, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim. Senator Ayim has never dumped the PDP for APC since 1999.
Meanwhile, Senator Ayim is contesting Presidential race, under the Platform of the Party and he will use every resources in his capacity, to ensure that PDP wins the future Elections in the state.
It should be recalled that Senator Anyim is a grassroot Politician in the State and if he remains in PDP, it may not be easy for Governor David Umahi to deliver the state for APC in future elections.


Share this on WhatsApp