Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Russian invasion of Ukraine has forced Roman Abramovich to put up Chelsea FC for sale for the first time since buying the London club in 2003.
The Russian Billionaire decided his initial decision to hand the club to trustees for care for the meantime proved abortive, and to avoid sanctions from the UK government, the 55-year-old billionaire has decided to sell his beloved club as soon as possible according to Swiss billionaire – Hansjorg Wyss.
ALSO READ: Why Abramovich put Chelsea up for sale following Ukrainian crisis
“Abramovich is trying to sell all his villas in England, he also wants to get rid of Chelsea quickly,” Wyss revealed in Swiss newspaper Blick.
The Russian billionaire has offered Wyss a chance to buy Chelsea FC, but the Swiss businessman would only buy the club if he can partner with up to 6 to 7 investors.
“I and three other people received an offer on Tuesday to buy Chelsea from Abramovich.
“I have to wait four to five days now. Abramovich is currently asking far too much.
“You know, Chelsea owes him £2 billion. But Chelsea has no money.
“As of today, we don’t know the exact selling price.
ALSO READ: Chelsea £4bn Sale: Why Chelsea is a good alternative for Dangote after Arsenal delayed purchase
“I can well imagine starting at Chelsea with partners.
“But I have to examine the general conditions first.
“But what I can already say: I’m definitely not doing something like this alone. If I buy Chelsea, then with a consortium consisting of six to seven investors.”
This could see Chelsea FC become a club owned by a group of billionaires if Wyss eventually succeeds in partnering with other big investors to purchase the London club.
And it could be a blessing in disguise to the Blues as they would have much financial power to run the club and buy more world-class players to continue competing in top competitions.
Note: we are only giving our opinion, and we do not certainly know who would end up buying the club, but we think that partnership ownership would bring more financial power to the club.
Would you like Chelsea to be owned by a group of people or would you rather like it to be owned by one person just like during Abramovich’s 20 years ownership?


Share this on WhatsApp