Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Pimple is a very common condition, and almost all of us has or will experience it in the future. Whenever you face this situation, don’t jump right in to start trying some random solution you heard of, without trying to verify them from trusted sources. Some of those habits can actually make the pimples or acne even worst, let’s look at some of those habits, according to healthline.com.
1. Picking at your pimples and picking at your skin



Although popping a pimple may feel give you some kind of relief, physicians advise against it. This can burst a hair follicle, resulting in skin inflammation, scarring, discolouration, and the creation of new pimples in the surrounding area. So if you are the kind of person that treat pimples by popping them, you are doing yourself no good.
2. Frequently washing your face
Your skin is much more intelligent and sensitive than you think. It self-regulates and creates only the amount of sebum required to keep it healthy, and moisturised. When we wash it too often, it becomes excessively dry. This can cause a build-up of dead skin, which will also lead to overproduction of sebum, and eventually ends up as more acne.
3. High consumption of oily foods
Greasy foods can aggravate acne-prone skin due to the excess oil and grease that can get on the skin from the food. So, to protect your skin and your health, eat a nutritious diet free of fatty, fried foods and sugar.
4. Putting makeup on while sleeping
Leaving makeup on overnight can trap grime that has gathered on your skin throughout the day. When clogged with specific chemicals contained in cosmetics, that filth not only harbours germs and causes pimples, but it also causes bigger pores.
5. Allowing sweats to dry off after exercising
Excessive sweating, as well as a buildup of oil, debris, and bacteria on your skin, caused by exercise and other physical activities, can all lead to acne. As a result, after sweating, make sure you bathe or wash your skin as soon as possible.


Share this on WhatsApp