Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveDoyin Okupe has chosen to sacrifice his presidential ambition for his southeast candidate Peter Obi–for a combination of reasons, including his ancestors.
But it’s no doubt a convenient choice: between N40m he must pay to obtain required forms (a fraudulent arrangement, he believes) and reaching an understanding with the Anambra former governor.
Okupe said it was clear to him that those at the PDP helm of affairs “are trying to hoodwink those of us aspirants from the South to commit ourselves to obtain the requisite forms before coming up with the original position that ‘every zone can contest the presidency.”
In addition to his fraud-proof vigilance is another noble character befitting of a 70-year-old Yoruba man.
“I turned 70 years a few days ago, and I have made a covenant with my maker that for the rest of my life, I shall uphold this spirit and principles of our forebears as manifestly displayed and represented in our collective socio-political heritage – THE AFENIFERE,” he told journalists at the NUJ secretariat Abeoukta on Wednesday while announcing his withdrawal..
“I turned 70 years a few days ago, and I have made a covenant with my maker that for the rest of my life, I shall uphold this spirit and principles of our forebears as manifestly displayed and represented in our collective socio-political heritage – THE AFENIFERE.
He explained how Pa Ayo Adebanjo, The Afenifere leader,  called him for the first time into his bedroom and admonished him to uphold truth and equity.
“In aligning myself with the wish of our elders and in the interest of equity and justice, I publicly admit that the 2023 political race must be conceded to the South-East,” he said.
“I, therefore, here and now proclaim that I am, as I have said publicly several times, withdrawing from the presidential race and I am declaring my support for the best aspirant not only in Igboland but in Nigeria as a whole.
“I and my supporters within and outside the PDP are teaming up with His Excellency, Peter Obi.
He then advised aspirants from the South— Dele Momodu, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, and His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike—to join forces with Obi.
Apart from mixing it on social media, Okupe has not served in any elective office since 1999, and he last served as a public affairs aide of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan.
He suddenly declared months ago Nigeria needed him as the PDP best candidate to take over from the ruling APC.
 
Share this on WhatsApp