Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Following the announcement that Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has chosen to sell the club, the Russian has stated that he has no intention of profiting from the sale. According to the Russian, he is making a difficult choice for the club, but feels it is in the best interests of the team.
“I’d want to address the media speculation in connection to my ownership of Chelsea FC over the past few days,” the 55-year-old stated in a statement released on Wednesday night.
“As I’ve already mentioned, I’ve always made choices in the best interests of the Club. In light of the current scenario, I have decided to sell the Club because I think it is in the best interests of the Club, its fans, staff, sponsors, and partners.”
“The sale of the Club will not be rushed, but will be conducted in accordance with established procedures. I shall not request repayment of any debts. For me, it’s never been about the money or the business; it’s always been about my love of the game and the club.
ALSO READ: Chelsea £4bn Sale: Why Chelsea is a good alternative for Dangote after Arsenal delayed purchase
“In addition, I’ve directed my staff to establish a philanthropic foundation to which all of the sale’s net revenues would be given. All victims of the war in Ukraine will benefit from the foundation. This entails both giving crucial cash for victims’ immediate and urgent needs, as well as helping long-term healing efforts.”
“Please understand that this was a very tough choice for me to make, and I regret having to part ways with the Club in this way. However, I am confident that this is in the Club’s best interests. I hope to be able to pay one last visit to Stamford Bridge to say my goodbyes to all of you.”
“Being a member of Chelsea FC has been a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and I am happy of all we have accomplished together. I will always have a soft spot in my heart for Chelsea Football Club and its supporters. I sincerely appreciate it.


Share this on WhatsApp