Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA middle aged woman from Nasarawa state, Matina Agawua, has confessed to sleeping with her 16-year old son to please her new husband who was threatening an end to their relationship if she would not conceive.
According to a report by the Nation newspaper, Matina, who lost her first husband to herdsmen attack after they were married for about two years, had just a son and decided to remarry after spending 13 years as a widow.
But for more than six years after getting married to her second husband, an indigene of Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa state identified simply as Mr. James, she could not conceive a child for what she said was no fault of hers.
“We had been married for more than six years but were still childless due to my husband’s fault, according to the doctor’s report, and I was hearing from the grapevine that he was planning to take a second wife on the grounds that I could not give him a child.”
READ ALSO: 27-year-old woman murders 75-yr-old in Anambra
Matina said she had undergone a test on her own since her husband refused to go for one, and the result showed that there was nothing wrong with her fertility. But to further convince herself about her fertility status, she decided to lure her own son, a student in Akwanga, into a secret affair with a stem warming that he should not reveal it to anyone.
Matina said she did not want to fall in love with an outsider so as not to betray her husband or make him feel bad.
She said: “Since he is not comfortable with us going for medical checkup on the assumption that nothing was wrong with him, I decided to convince my little son, who is just about 16 years old and schooling in Akwanga
“I visited him regularly. He stays in a private apartment with my relatives, so I was going there to spend some time with them, especially on weekends when my market is off.
“It was actually difficult making love with my own son, but circumstances forced me to go into it. I needed to be sure of my fertility.
“I tried to visit my son in Akwanga mostly when I was on my ovulation period. I decided to develop a crush on him and draw him very close to me. We got intimate and ended up having sex.
READ ALSO: Court remands 3 for allegedly robbing woman of jewelry worth millions
“But from that singular session with my son, l missed my period that very month of January 2022, and a medical test showed that I was pregnant.”
When she broke to her husband what ordinarily should be a piece of good news, he denied being responsible for it and suspected foul play. James reminded her that they had not had an affair for about three months, wondering how that could have resulted in a pregnancy.
The development led to suspicions which created a big crisis in the family, prompting a friend to suggest that they should subject themselves to medical tests to ascertain the paternity of the unborn child.
The test at Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital Lafia shows that the husband is not the father of the child. Matters got worse as the test further revealed that her husband has weak and very low sperm count that would not enable him to father a child.
As soon as these details were made known to the husband, he became angry, accusing his wife of adultery and threatening her life, which made her open up on the details of the pregnancy.
Not satisfied, the husband summoned Matina’s son who underwent the same test confirming that he is actually the father of the unborn child.
Matina’s husband said he would not accept a pregnancy that did not emanate from him. “Even sleeping under the same roof with him is scary; he might harm me in the middle of the night.
Share this on WhatsApp