Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


As the 2023 presidential election draws closer, the race on replacing President Muhammadu Buhari gets intense and tough by the day. It will interest you to note that as the issue of the 2023 presidential election is being discussed, one person that has been on the headlines of print and social media is no other person than Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC. It should be recalled that early this year, Tinubu openly declared his interest to contest for the 2023 presidential election after he visited President Buhari in Aso Rock.
ALSO READ: Reactions as Tinubu calls himself a youth
Since his open declaration, Bola Tinubu has been making a series of consultations both within and outside the country. It will interest you to note that within a space of a few weeks, he has visited lots of traditional rulers to seek royal blessings, endorsement, and support for his 2023 presidential ambition. Just recently, it has been gathered from a reliable source that the APC stalwart, Bola Tinubu had a consultation with the State Council of traditional rulers at the Council’s Chambers, Old Governor’s Office before he paid a courtesy visit to Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe in his palace.
It was gathered that the former Governor was accompanied to the meeting by Deputy Governor Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi and high ranking members of the Southwest Agenda 2023 for Tinubu Presidential ambition led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye. Addressing the traditional rulers, Tinubu said he was in the State purposely to consult traditional rulers and seek their prayers and support for the 2023 elections.
It will interest you to note that Bola Tinubu while speaking on Thursday during a consultation with members of the Ekiti traditional council in Ado-Ekiti, said he is in the 2023 presidential race to bring hope to the people and effect the changes the country desires. He went on to say that said the country is in dire need of a leader who can unite the people, tackle insecurity and bring about the desired socio-economic development.
ALSO READ: 2 Southern states the PDP may reclaim from APC in 2023
From all indications, Tinubu keeps making more consultations ahead of all other presidential aspirants. Analysts have opined that Osinbajo is a better option than Tinubu, but it will interest you to note that until now, Osinbajo has not declared whether he will be contesting for the exalted position. More so, he has not been making serious consultations like his godfather Tinubu. From all indications, it seems that Tinubu may eventually become the presidential flag bearer of the APC.


Share this on WhatsApp