Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Fresh global tension emerged as India fired a missile into Pakistan, which New Delhi’s defence ministry on Friday, said was accidental and “deeply regrettable”.
The Indian defence ministry had explained that “in the course of a routine maintenance, a technical malfunction led to the accidental firing of a missile” on Wednesday.
The ministry observed that the missile landed “in an area of Pakistan”.
The Indian defence ministry stated that incident was “deeply regrettable”, noting that it was “a matter of relief that there has been no loss of life due to the accident.”
Pakistan foreign ministry had expressed anger that the missile was an “unprovoked violation of its airspace by an Indian origin ‘super-sonic flying object’”.
The Indian charge d’affaires in Islamabad was summoned to the Pakistani foreign office for a “strong protest”.
The Pakistani authorities had protested that the “imprudent launch” had damaged property on the ground and put at risk both civilian lives and aircraft in Pakistani airspace. The foreign ministry accused India of “callousness towards regional peace and stability.”
The incident is coming as the war over Russian invasion of Ukraine continues to escalate. Several countries are beginning to overhaul their military arsenal not to be taken unawares on the event of outbreak of a world war.
The U.S. had early this week expressed concerns that North Korea has continued to develop its intercontinental ballistic missiles capability, which the U.S. viewed as threat to global security.
India and Pakistan have been at loggerhead over Kashmir territory, which had provoked war between Hindu-majority India and Muslim Pakistan.
India deployed over 500,000 standing troops in Indian-administered Kashmir, where separatist rebels have been struggling for regional independence or merger with Pakistan.
India has over time accused Pakistan of sponsoring the separatists, but this was denied by Islamabad.
Share this on WhatsApp