Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






Nigerians have reacted to a purported claim that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has informed President Muhammadu Buhari of his interest in the 2023 presidency.
Reports on Monday suggested that Osinbajo had told Buhari that he is interested in vying for the presidency next year.
Several Nigerians have erred their views on Twitter on the vice president’s purported declaration of interest which he had not made known to the public officially.
A Twitter user, Woman of Peace said: “Buhari failed woefully because Osibanjo contributed nothing to the leadership, not even opinions. He is just earning  salaries, benefits etc doing nothing. He is too incompetent and inferior to be a President of this country. Period!”
According to De’Bourgeois, “Those rooting for Osibanjo to succeed Buhari in 2023, are you confident that he will perform or you just like Osibanjo for his calm kind of failure?”
Ado Enkan added: “Osibanjo is in every way associated with Buhari’s failure. Yes or Yes?”
Nnamdi CJ said: “Osibanjo is trying so hard to use media to sell himself to Nigerians. His hands are no longer tied. He should untie his hands first.”
As for Aliu Mustapha, “I think Osibanjo is the best candidate APC could field to compete against PDP candidate. With Osibanjo, you have an objective and highly educated man. With Osibanjo, you have a healthy man without any baggage of corruption or relations with Area boys.”
Frank Cruise said: “If Osibanjo decides to contest for the president come 2023, I’m afraid the South East; Ndigbo won’t get the chance. He will likely win! Buhari is fast losing his grip on APC! 2039 may finally be the turn of igbos.”
Emmanuel AC stated: “It doesn’t matter what you feel about this administration. The govt is a failure, no making excuses. But on an individual note, Vice President Yemi Osibanjo has what it takes to reposition Nigeria. If Peter Obi doesn’t want to declare, then Yemi is our best shot.”
According to Peter Ilozue, “Osibanjo didn’t live up to expectations as a VP, he’s not credible to run for presidency cos he is not a man of the people or one who takes a stand during crucial times; His silence during the EndSARS crisis is proof enough. Making him president is the same as reelecting Buhari.”
ALSO READ: Video of Osinbajo singing “Dior” by Ruger at an event sparks reactions online
Anotherb twitter user said: “I want to see how Osibanjo versus Tinubu’s battle is going to pan out. Student vs master saga.”
Read more below:

Siji, I can actually blame them. We cannot exonorate Yemi Osibanjo from the sins of this administration. Whether his hands where tied or not, he assumed the position of the VP and stayed on it for 8years.
I insist that this country is tribalistic because if Yemi was Chinedu…
— Ms Chinonye (@ChinonyeMs) March 14, 2022

Tinubu Stans will let us hear word now abi. Osibanjo is not interested we are forcing him and trying to destroy his relationship bla bla bla, you guys have agenda bla bla bla,sabotuers bla bla bla



— ♥ PH kaido (@Josizy) March 14, 2022

You can’t be calling Buhari a failure and be excluding Yemi Osibanjo from his failure, both Buhari and Osinbajo are in Aso Rock together, the failure or success of this government in on both of them.
— Uncle Ajala (@UNCLE_AJALA) March 14, 2022

Osibanjo didn’t live up to expectations as a VP, he’s not credible to run for presidency cos he is not a man of the people or one who takes a stand during crucial times; His silence during the EndSARS crisis is proof enough. Making him president is the same as reelecting Buhari.
— Daniel Regha (@DanielRegha) March 14, 2022

Osinbanjo is not coming & he won’t declare his interest either now or later.. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the incoming President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.. Tinubu can deliver beyond expectation.
— Issa Sodiq lshola (@LsholaSodiq) March 14, 2022

Tbh, imo I don’t think Osibanjo is fit or most qualified to be our president. He is the VP to the most corrupt and worst government Nigeria ever had. As a VP, your duty are not limited to only attending burials alone.
He should courageous enough to tell his boss (buhari) that
— Mr Clintz (@emeghaclinton) March 14, 2022

Tbh, imo I don’t think Osibanjo is fit or most qualified to be our president. He is the VP to the most corrupt and worst government Nigeria ever had. As a VP, your duty are not limited to only attending burials alone.
He should courageous enough to tell his boss (buhari) that
— Mr Clintz (@emeghaclinton) March 14, 2022

It’s a very silly idea to vote for osibanjo.
— BARCELONA World  (@eojmcid) March 14, 2022

” I’ll rather vote Osibanjo than Tinubu” is also part of Tinubu’s game plan” a Win – Win game for him. Unfortunately, Osibanjo he cannot be exonerated from this calamitous govt.
— Meka (@Nduejuafo) March 14, 2022

Tinubu can NEVER step back for Osibanjo. Worst case scenario, APC might reject Tinubu at the end to favour Osibanjo.
— Nick I. Thomas (@NakedNick) March 14, 2022






Share this on WhatsApp