Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has cried out for more military support from the West as the Russian President Vladimir Putin intensified bombardment of Ukraine in the past 11 days. This as Ukraine suffers shortage of food, water, and electricity outage in several parts of the country.
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine specifically demanded the supply of Russia made warplanes to the country.  The Ukrainian President had appealed to the United States (US) to provide Poland with US made warplanes so that Poland can move Russia made warplanes in the country to Ukraine.
US Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer after a video conversation between US lawmakers and the Ukrainian President, disclosed that Zelensky “made a desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes” which he said Ukrainians were trained to fly.
The Foreign Minister of Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, visiting the Poland-Ukraine border with US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, said, “The highest demand that we have is in fighter jets, attack aircraft, and air-defense systems.
“If we lose the skies, there will be much more blood on the ground.”
President Vladimir Putin of Russia has sustained stern warning to the West of a nuclear war if there is any international interference in the Ukraine military operations. The EU, US, and NATO have also been cautious of a wider war if a no-fly zone is declared in Ukraine as requested by President Zelensky. However, the Western allies maintain providing support to Ukraine, insisting on protecting the war-torn country.
Zelensky had criticized NATO for rejecting a no-fly zone in Ukraine on the excuse that it could spark a wider war. Putin threatens of “colossal and catastrophic consequences not only for Europe but also the whole world” if such a zone were established.
“Any movement in this direction will be considered by us as participation in an armed conflict by that country,” Putin declared. The Russian President had warned that the US and the European countries should not ignore that Russia is a world nuclear power. The UN had expressed concerns that nuclear war will be disastrous for all humans in the world.
Share this on WhatsApp