Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Lagos State Police Command has paraded a male company worker aged 38 years old, identified as Nnaji Monday Chioma working with IMPCO Company, Mushin connived with some armed robbers to rob the company where he worked.
According to the police, to ensure a seamless operation, the worker facilitated the employment of a spy labourer to carry out pre-operation surveillance of the target company.
Having worked in the company as a casual worker for one day, the spy, in turn, recruited his cohorts and formed a gang which eventually invaded the company about 0200hrs on  February 13, 2022, and tied the company security guards before carting away 693 bags of resin raw materials for manufacturing of plastic products valued at N24,000,000.
READ ALSO: HURIWA urges security agencies to guard against recruiting armed robbers
The suspects are: Abiodun Monday Abayomi, 29, Oluwafemi Philips, 59, Daniel Nwachukwu, 37, Nnaji Monday Chioma, and Falade Yusuf, 37, were paraded by the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi at Command Headquarters, Ikeja.
He stated that all the exhibits were recovered which included: 693 bags of resin, two Foton trucks, four cutlasses, one axe, a chisel and a hammer.
To fast-track their robbing operation, Abiodun Monday Abayomi, who is in charge of hiring casual labourers, employed Falade Yusuf, a casual worker to spy on the company with a view to robbing it of raw materials.
Falade explained that he worked in the company for only one day on a reconnaissance mission and found out the number of security men that they have and they hadn’t any policemen on duty. In addition, he discovered that the company had three gates before perfecting their strategies and they struck.
He further explained that he was not part of the operation but agreed that he had robbed two other companies before. However, Abiodun further explained that having gotten a brief from the spy, they recruited 14 robbers and eight loaders, and went with two trucks armed with cutlasses.
READ ALSO: Armed robbers lay siege on Benin, kill 600 level UNIBEN student
“We rounded up the security guards and kept them in one room, having tied their hands. We successfully carted away the 693 bags; we sold each bag to a buyer for N9,000 against the market value of more than N20,000 each.
“During the operation, we didn’t use guns but cutlasses because we knew there were no policemen on the ground and successfully frightened the guards to submission.
However, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu who stood in for the Commissioner said their investigation revealed that the same gang confessed to have robbed Sorrento Nigeria Ltd. Company, Town Planning Way, Ilupeju on November 29, 2021 and Sund Group Company at Iyana-Ipaja in April 2021. During the Sorrento Company operation, the gang carted away 1,400 bags of resin valued at N48m.
Share this on WhatsApp