Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveEx-Adamawa deputy gov Tahir, defects to NNPP.
 
Ex-Adamawa Deputy Governor, Sa’ad Tahir, has dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP).
Tahir announced his defection at a press conference on Tuesday in Yola.
The National Daily reports that in October 2014, a Federal High Court judge in Abuja sacked acting governor, Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa, and ordered that Bala Ngilari, the former deputy to the then impeached Gov Murtala Nyako, be sworn in immediately as substantive governor.
Tahir was nominated and appointed to serve as deputy governor to Bala Ngilari on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The former deputy governor in December 2018 decamped from PDP to APC and has been in APC since then until the recent development.
He said one of his reasons for defecting was to enable him protect the nation’s democracy, among others.
“I dumped the PDP for the APC in 2018 with the good intention of strengthening our democracy,” Tahir said.
In a related development, Chubado Tijjani, a two-term former chairman of Madagali local government council, has decamped from PDP to APC.
Reacting to the development, PDP stakeholders in the council, however, described his defection as a “relief to the party”.
Abdu Jabu, the Madagali Ward PDP Chairman, stated this in a press briefing on Tuesday in Yola.
Jabu said that the Madagali PDP had never regarded Tijjani as a full member of the party.
“Tijjani willingly refused to support his own brother, Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri, during the 2019 general elections.
“His defection is a relief to PDP as a party, because, since 2014 he has contributed nothing to the development of the party in Madagali,” Jabu said.
Meanwhile, in a swift reaction to the PDP statement, Mohammed Ibrahim, APC Publicity Secretary in the state, said Chubado Tijjani has resigned his membership of the PDP and joined the APC based on personal reasons.
“His exit is a devastating blow to the PDP family in Madagali Local Government and across the state.
“Chubado Tijjani is busy making arrangements for better things in his new party, APC, and has no time to join issues with the party he has left,” Ibrahim said.
Share this on WhatsApp