Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

As the 2023 general elections draw close, many Nigerian state governors will be serving their second and last terms in office, accordingly, most of them may want to retire into the Nigerian Senate.

It has mostly been the case in the past that most governors after serving 8 years in office, as governors go ahead to contest and seek election into the Nigerian Senate. Some examples are Senator Godswill Akpabio, Senator Sam Egwu, Senator Rochas Okorocha, amongst many others.
Similarly, in the forthcoming general elections, some state governors who have served their second terms in office might want to go ahead to seek election into the Senate to serve as senators.
This article will look at some state governors who have already served their second term and may be looking at retiring to the Nigerian Senate.
1. Nyesom Wike
The Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, who is also a stalwart of the People’s Democratic Party, would be exiting office as Governor of Rivers State in 2023, it is contended here that he may want to go into the Senate if he couldn’t contest for presidency.

Wike is an astute politician who has been in active politics even before he contested elections to become governor of Rivers State. In the People’s Democratic Party, he is said to be a force to be reckoned with.
Accordingly, Wike may still want to stay relevant in politics like the likes of Godswill Akpabio who is also from the South-South and who went straight to the Senate after exiting office in 2015.
2. Okezie Ikpeazu
The Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who is currently serving his second and last term as governor of the Southeastern state, may want to retire to the Senate as his predecessors, Orji Uzor Kalu and Theodore Orji did after their tenures.

It is believed that Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe who is currently in the Senate and who shares the same Senatorial District with Ikpeazu, may leave the Senatorial seat for the Abia State government house to make way for Ikpeazu.
3. Emmanuel Udom
Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State is another sitting governor who may want to seek election into Nigeria’s legislative arm after his tenure as governor of the South-South state.

Mr. Udom may want to follow the footsteps of his predecessor, Godswill Akpabio, who left the Akwa Ibom State government house to the Senate after his tenure.


Share this on WhatsApp