Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


As the date of the national convention of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) continues to draw closer, a fresh indication has emerged that former Lagos Governor and presidential hopeful, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be sidelined from making any contribution to the formation of the new National Working Committee (NWC) of the party.
Tinubu, a prominent leader from the Southwest and influential figure in the party was instrumental in the formation of APC in 2013. He is believed to have nominated Chief Bisi Akande, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who were past national chairmen of the party.
However, according to reports, loyalists of the President Muhammadu Buhari want the composition of the new NWC to be a reflection of the President’s image. Consequently, the former Lagos Governor will be prevented from nominating anyone for the NWC. The report claims those in the camp of the president passed a message to Tinubu that he cannot nominate candidates since he has moved from being a kingmaker to become an aspirant.
If this report is anything to go by, it means Tinubu may not have a say in who becomes the national secretary of the party. The national secretary position is the highest position zoned to the Southwest in the zoning arrangement for the new NWC.
Whoever has the structure of the NWC under its grip will have a greater influence in who will emerge the presidential candidate of the APC. Recall that after the national convention in March, the ruling party will conduct its presidential primaries few month after.
Even though the president has continued to shy away from naming his preferred successor, his attempt to have the NWC loyal to him means he will have influence over the party’s presidential primary.
Considering speculations that Tinubu may not be his preferred successor, the influence of the president over the NWC may cause the former Lagos Governor to miss out on the APC presidential ticket.


Share this on WhatsApp