Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Chairman of the Igbo Elders Consultative Forum (IECF), Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, has revealed that some Igbo sons and daughters are being used to fine-tune the plot to deny the Igbo of South East Nigeria the opportunity to produce the President of the country in 2023.
Ezeife who disclosed this in Abuja, said these set of people are part of the plot with a promise of being chosen as running mate to whoever emerges the presidential candidate in any of the major political parties.
“We are waiting for them, as they will meet their political Waterloo this time if they insist on short-changing the South East this rare opportunity of producing a credible, patriotic, detribalised and dynamic president of Nigeria in 2023,” he said.
Ezeife assured that measures have been put in place to identify the people working against the political interest of South East people, saying they would incur the wrath of the people.
READ ALSO:2023: 2 factors that may cause PDP to lose Southeast for the first time in 24 years
He stated: “We are very serious about this directive, and do not mean those unserious bootlickers who are angling to be running mates to candidates from other parts of the country, as the Igbo will not take it lightly with any of our sons or daughters who accept to be running mates to any person outside the South East zone in 2023.
Ezeife said Nigeria would be the biggest beneficiary of a President of South East extraction as according to him, her unity will be better guaranteed because of justice, equity and fairness.
The elders’ position came as the apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo declared that whichever part of the country that produces the next president would send a conspicuous message to all Ndigbo worldwide about their destiny in Nigeria.
Meanwhile, President General of Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, George Obiozor, also pleaded with the nation’s political class to drop all fears and prejudices against Ndigbo and to forge a common front to move the nation forward.
Obiozor also noted that Ndigbo, as an ethnic nationality, is blessed with a good number of capable, patriotic and credible personalities who are eminently qualified to govern the country and meet the expectations of the citizenry through equity, justice and fairness.



Share this on WhatsApp