Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
By Odunewu Olusegun

While Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra state has apologized for the show of shame between Bianca Ojukwu and the wife of former governor of the state, Ebelechukwu Obiano, more revelations on the cause of the brawl are beginning to emerge.
While earlier reports stated that the fight ensued when Mrs Obiano had taunted Bianca which elicited a slap from, Nationaldaily authoritatively gathered from reliable sources that the root of the quarrel pre-dated today’s altercation.
Nationaldaily learnt that Mrs. Obiano single handedly denied Bianca APGA’s senatorial ticket for the seat currently occupied by Patrick Uba of Capital Oil.
READ ALSO: After slapping former first lady, Bianca bares her heart on Facebook
YPP got protest votes from APGA supporters. Secondly, Mrs. Obiano is alleged to have influenced the replacement of Ojukwu’s picture with Obiano’s picture on the APGA Ankara material.
Thirdly, she was instrumental to the revocation of a parcel of land hitherto allocated to Ojukwu upon which Obiano’s wife’s brother started erecting the structure before Bianca used a bulldozer  to demolish the structure. Bianca eventually built it on the land.
It was also gathered that Bianca had boycotted APGA events in protest of the denial of the Anambra South Senatorial ticket in the 2019 general elections. But she considered it a high provocation for the Governor’s wife to publicly tongue-lash her with that fact.
Nationaldaily also gathered that despite Governor Soludo’s intervention, the fight may not end here as Obiano’s wife is nursing a senatorial ambition in 2023 general elections, and Bianca and her supporters within the ruling APGA in the state have vowed to pay her back.
READ ALSO: Bianca Ojukwu loses APGA senatorial primary election
According to a source, Obiano’s wife has today been taught a lesson of the ephemeral nature of political power.
“She didn’t know that her husband had lost the paraphernalia of office and immunity with the swearing-in of Soludo. I can bet that she may receive more slaps from lesser mortals should she put into action her intention to run for Senate in the 2023 general elections,” the source said.
Meanwhile, Soludo in a statement by his media aide, Joe Anatune, said steps were being taken to resolve the misunderstanding and restore the parties to their previous relationship.
 “Anambra State has over the years been known for a huge stock of social harmony, and the stock will increase substantially in the years ahead as part of the concerted effort to accelerate the state’s development,” he added
Share this on WhatsApp