Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Actress, Annie Idibia, is at the centre of a trend generated by her elder brother, Wisdom.
In a video that surfaced on Tuesday night, Wisdom had accused Annie of using him like a “slave”, and introducing him to hard drugs.
He said, “I’m crying out for help now, my life is being threatened. I have been working with my sister but she would never pay me my dues. She would rather send me N20,000, N30,000… turned me into her slave and when she’s angry, threaten to end it. Some weeks back, her husband sent me some money. I have been begging him for years. The money wasn’t so much but I used it to settle my home.
“Annie introduced me to drugs, hard drugs. Annie takes drugs. She is a drug addict. She takes it everyday. She is so violent.”
Wisdom claimed that Annie took away everything from him after he left for two weeks to settle some personal issues.
He went on to reveal, “I have been begging my sister for a car to do Uber for many years now so that on my own, I can be able to provide for my wife and three children. My sister has never responded to me.”
Reacting to the fresh social media debacle, tweeps bashed Wisdom for feeling “entitled”.
A tweep, Finewine said, “This Annie Idibia’s brother is such an entitled a*shole. Never seen someone exude such stupidity with so much confidence. So Annie is supposed to give you money to marry? Her husband gave you money and it is not enough
If I be Annie, you won’t cross my door forever.
R.R said, “Looks like Annie Idibia’s brother wasn’t enjoying the peace of his obscurity. Never seen anyone attest to their own laziness and entitlement with such confidence.”
Peng Man said, “’ I’ve been begging my sister for years to give me a car to do Uber’ Annie Idibia’s brother sounds so f**king entitled! Bro nobody owes you sh*t! Hustle your own!”
Dr Nice Neferkitty opined that Annie had no family to run to. She said, “Now I understand why Annie Idibia decided to stick with Tuface despite all the constant embarrassment. She has no family to run back to. Sometimes blood relations are the worst.”
Biola Kazeem tweeted, “You sat down, told us how your sister has given you money many times and how her husband just gave you money and because she did not give you what you asked for, you made a video to destroy her. I honestly feel for Annie.”
Meanwhile, singer and Annie’s husband, 2Baba reacting said some family members can be one’s worst enemy
Share this on WhatsApp