Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


There is uneasiness within the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the second term aspiration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, as party members, who are loyal to other aspirants have started complaining over the purported second term endorsement of the governor by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.
However, the news of Sanwo- Olu’s second term endorsement by Tinubu took many by surprise, especially those who do not have a close relationship with the governor and have not really benefited from his administration.
Though many have tipped the governor for another term in office, there are others who feel he hasn’t done excellently well to get another term in office.
Apart from this, some have tipped Sanwo-Olu’s deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, to replace him come 2023.
READ ALSO: CPLG says Sanwo-Olu deserves 2nd term,cite landmark achievements 
Others who have also been tipped for the number one seat include the Senator representing Lagos West, Tokunbo Abiru, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and the Lagos State Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola.
However, both Muri-Okunola and Gbajabiamila have denied any plan to unseat Sanwo- Olu but there are claims that some interests within the party are hell bent on showing Sanwo-Olu the way out.
According to a reliable source, the issue of religion is one of the factors that is likely to work against Sanwo-Olu when the time comes.
According to a top politician in the state, “The agreement was that Sanwo-Olu will only complete Akinwunmi Ambode’s remaining four years and he himself is aware of that arrangement.
There are others who are very much interested in becoming governor. Someone appealed in 2019 to step down for him (Sanwo-Olu). “Some of us are waiting to hear from Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu because they have already started using his name again.
“They said he has endorsed Sanwo-Olu for a second term but we don’t believe it. Every interested aspirant should be allowed to contest in a primary and if he wins, we will accept it.”
Another source disclosed that Hamzat will challenge Sanwo-Olu once it is time. “The deputy governor will contest against Sanwo-Olu this time around. Nobody has endorsed or will endorse anybody.
“Everyone will go and test their popularity in an open primary election. “Don’t believe whatever they are saying about Asiwaju endorsing Sanwo-Olu, it is only some people that are benefitting from Sanwo-Olu that are playing that game.
“Sanwo-Olu himself is just trying to be smart, he knows that there are others capable people who are eyeing the seat, so those around him are just the ones flying that kite of Asiwaju endorsing him for a second term,” the source claimed.


Share this on WhatsApp