Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The onion (Allium cepa) is used in both cooking and medicine. Garlic, shallots, leeks, scallions, and chives are all members of the Allium genus.
It is thought to be one among the world’s first cultivated veggies. In reality, it has been used as food and a treatment for a variety of maladies by the Romans, Greeks, and many other nations for thousands of years.
Furthermore, onion’s use as a herbal treatment led to the discovery of several medical properties by current study. Anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, antithrombotic, anticancer, antioxidant, and heart- and liver-protective characteristics, for example.
ALSO READ: 5 things you shouldn’t do immediately after exercise
Even with all of these possible health benefits, onions might have unfavourable side effects in certain people.
According to experts, below are 4 medical conditions that get worse with eating onions.
1. Irritable bowel syndrome.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) affects 10–15 percent of the population in the United States. Bloating, stomach pain, cramps, gas, generalised weakness, and abnormal bowel motions ranging from constipation to diarrhoea are all symptoms.
Because onions can cause or exacerbate IBS symptoms, some people may need to avoid them temporarily or permanently.
2. Heartburn
GERD, or gastroesophageal reflux disease, is a condition in which the contents of your stomach move back up into your oesophagus, the tube that connects your stomach and throat. A burning sensation in your chest may result as a result of this.
According to a study published in 2000, certain foods, such as onions, can cause heartburn by relaxing the LES.
3. Bloating
Bloating is a condition in which the stomach is overflowing with gas and can be extremely unpleasant. Regularly eating onions might cause severe bloating. The fibres in the onions trigger the bloating.
ALSO READ: Health benefits and side effects of eating late at night
4. Onion allergy
According to an article published in the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, it is conceivable to have a food intolerance or allergy to onions, but such cases are uncommon. If an onion comes into touch with the skin, those with onion allergies may develop red, itchy eyes and rashes. Those who are allergic to onions may develop nausea, vomiting, and other stomach problems.


Share this on WhatsApp