Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Lagos State Police Command has paraded two men who posed as UBER drivers to rob their unsuspecting passengers at gunpoint.
The duo of 29-year-old Sunday Gabriel and 24-year old Kenneth Agbehi devised a criminal modus operandi by pretending to be UBER drivers, preying on unsuspecting passengers in some parts of the state.
However, on February 27, 2022, about 2000hrs, the two suspects held a female victim hostage, robbed her of her ATM card, cash and other valuable items.
The suspects, thereafter, unlawfully withdrew the sum of N2,400,000.00 from the victim’s bank account. Following a diligent investigation carried out by police operatives, the suspects were nabbed in their hideout at Adeola Odeku Street, Victoria Island where they were planning another operation.
READ ALSO: How worker connived with armed robbers to rob workplace
Upon interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and several others they had committed before. Exhibits recovered from them included one locally-made pistol, three live cartridges, one Toyota Camry with Registration Number AHL 571 FE and one Toyota Corolla saloon car with registration number EPE 32 GG. The suspects are in police custody while awaiting legal advice from the DPP.
Giving a scorecard since assumption of office between January 24 and March 1, 2022, the command said that due to its proactive strategies and reinvigorated security architecture, they foiled 16 armed robbery incidents and arrested 62 armed robbery suspects. After a diligent investigation was carried out, 50 armed robbery suspects were charged to court.
Similarly, the command’s efforts in curbing cultism in the state also yielded tremendous results as no fewer than 104 suspected cultists were arrested. Of this number, 98 suspected cultists were charged to court while others are currently under close watch.
A total of 15 vehicles stolen at different locations in the state, mostly those removed from parks, were recovered through painstaking and coordinated investigations carried out by our crack detectives.
READ ALSO: Police arrest suspects who murdered, set ablaze Ogun traditional ruler
CP Alabi said the command has been unrelenting in its efforts to curb the excesses of reckless drivers in the state and as such different operations either separately or jointly carried out by the Command’s Operations Department, Taskforce, Area Commands and divisions resulting in the arrest of 19 drivers for driving against traffic.
During the period, 436 vehicles were contravened for plying BRT lanes, 316 motorcycles were impounded for contravening the restriction order. This order restricts the areas motorcycle riders are authorized to ply.
Share this on WhatsApp