Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
National leader of the All Progressives Congress and presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu may be considering pitching his tent with an alternative political party to vie for the 2023 presidency, National Daily has learnt.
At the weekend, insiders in Ekiti claimed Tinubu plans to test the waters with the governorship election that will be held on June 18, 2022.
The ambition of the ex-Lagos Governor “does not have the full backing” of Governor Kayode Fayemi, who himself is reportedly interested in the presidency.
Tinubu, well aware of this, is “tactically aligning” with Segun Oni, a one-time Ekiti Governor and Social Democratic Party (SDP) flagbearer.
Fayemi’s ally, Biodun Oyebanji, a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), won the APC ticket after defeating Ojo Kayode, Opeyemi Bamidele and Dayo Adeyeye.
READ ALSO: 2023: Why Omisore’s purported candidacy as APC National Secretary is bad news for Tinubu’s ambition
The calculation is that with 54-year-old Oyebanji as Governor, the state government and party chapter may not commit to working for Tinubu’s emergence as President.
The Jagaban of Borgu is disposed to stopping Fayemi from installing a next-in-line not only for refusing to support his bid but daring to join the presidential race.
“The President wants a younger person and that’s not Tinubu. Fayemi wants to be President if the office is zoned to the South”, a source said.
“If he fails, he may get the SGF (Secretary to the Government of the Federation) position as long as the next President or Vice are not from South-West. Tinubu is monitoring all that’s happening and he seems to have pitched his tent with the SDP. The truth is that civil servants like Oni are ready to vote for him.
“With his cold war with Fayemi and Oni’s popularity, Tinubu has developed a soft spot for the SDP. And this isn’t just about the Ekiti election, he may contest on the platform if APC denies him a ticket.”
During Tinubu’s visit to Ekiti monarchs a fortnight ago, the state government allegedly frustrated the use of the Adetiloye Hall.
READ ALSO: 2023: Why Tinubu’s camp has every reason to be troubled by Osinbajo’s presidential ambition
“The authorities stopped the use of the venue because Fayemi isn’t working for his political leader’s ambition. In fact, by the time Tinubu landed, Fayemi left the state via helicopter.
“They said he had to be in Abuja. He could have briefly shown up at the parley with the Obas but didn’t want to be seen with Tinubu in such a gathering”, another source hinted.
The meeting was eventually held at the palace of the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe, where Tinubu decried “hopelessness, hunger and lack of development” in the land.
Share this on WhatsApp