Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


An agriculture expert, Mr Ismail Olawale, has expressed concern over genetically engineered crops/animals and its effect on human health.
Olawale, a fellow at the National Agricultural Extension and Research Liaison Services (NAERLS) made the observations in Lagos.
According to him, genetically engineered crops and animals improved the productivity or potential of such crops or animals but were still linked to a lot of reservations.
He however, said that in spite of the blessings of GMOs, their emergence has been greeted with a lot of reservations over the years.
“The term GMO is just an aspect of biotechnology. Biotechnology is a bigger term that comprises the manipulation of some chemical composition and properties of crops to improve their performance.
“There are various forms of biotechnology but green biotechnology is basically concerned with improving agriculture productivity of both animal and crop life.
“It involves tampering with the DNA of crops or animals to boost productivity
“There are lots of agitation and controversies surrounding genetically engineered or modified crops to replace normal animal or crop cultivation.
“There are fears that the genetically engineered processes could lead to mutations that can spring up different genes that will be problematic in the near future.
“There are also rising concerns over GMO crops, there are fears that they may not be as beneficial as those grown traditionally.
“The shelf life of genetically engineered food or fruit does not last as long as those cultivated normally.
“There are also special requirements, procedures that must be specifically adhered to in the cultivation of GMOs,” the expert said.
Olawale further expressed concerns over the side effects of GMOs on the environment as well as other difficulties on crop cultivation.
“There are also fears that the pollen of GMO crops if planted alongside naturally cultivated crops, can cross pollinate which can lead to an entirely different crop breed.
“GMO crops have also been linked to the springing up of different kinds of weed that local farmers are unable to contain.
“Environmental degradation is also linked to the cultivation of GMO crops because it has been noted to alter the soil composition. The issue of GMO crops affecting human health negatively is an ongoing debate that is still unresolved,” Olawale said.
Share this on WhatsApp