Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


A stroke is a medical emergency that occurs when the supply of blood to your brain is disrupted. Blood is transported to the brain by blood vessels known as arteries. This blood is made up of oxygen and essential nutrients needed by your brain cells. Blood may stop moving through an artery, because the artery is blocked or bursts. When brain cells no longer receive blood as usual, they begin to die.
Brain cells usually die shortly after the stroke begins. However, some can last just for few hours, if the blood supply is not stooped completely. If the blood supply can be returned in the minutes and hours after the stroke, some of these cells may work effectively again. If not, they will also die.
The most common symptoms of a stroke include:
• Weakness or numbness of the face, arm, or leg on one side of the body.
• Loss of vision or dimming in one or both eyes.
• Loss of speech, difficulty talking, or not understanding what others are saying.
• Sudden, serious headache with no known cause.
• Loss of balance or unstable walking, usually combined with other symptoms.
In your own interest kindly visit your doctor when this symptoms are noticed, the doctor can help save your life from the menace of stroke.
Your wrong choice of diet contributes to what makes you fall victim of stroke. Certain things when consumed beyond moderation can trigger your risk for stroke and possibly other diseases.
Below Are Foods You Shouldn’t Eat In Excess.
1. Avoid excessive smoking
Excess smoking of cigarettes or tobacco is a factor that triggers your risk of stroke. They is an immediate health benefit you stand to gain when you quit smoking, it makes your risk for stroke to reduce and can drop by as much as half after a year.
However, it is not advisable that after you stopped smoking for a while you later go back to it again. Smoking after stroke increases death risk. People who return back to this lifestyle after a stroke are making their susceptibility of death to increase by three-fold.
2 . Avoid drinking excess of alcohol
Most people have consumed alcohol at some point in their lives. Drinking alcohol at moderate levels have been revealed to be good for one’s health, but binge drinking can have severe negative consequences on your health.
Alcohol, and especially alcohol abuse, can significantly affect your risk of stroke. In fact, a recent study have shown that drinking one to two bottles of alcohol per day can make your risk of stroke to rise by 10% to 15%. Additional four or more drinks can also aggravate your risk of stroke by up to 35%.
3. Avoid excess intake of red meat
Regular consumption of red meat can significantly increase your risk for stroke. Eating more than two red meat servings every day had a 28% higher risk of stroke than those who eat about one-third of a serving per day. It is advisable to substitute other proteins, like nuts or fish, for one daily serving of red meat as it can reduce your stroke risk.
Kindly reduce your red meat intake and you can totally stop drinking of alcohol and smoking of cigarettes for your own good.


Share this on WhatsApp