Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Rivers State governor Wike ought to have travelled to Goodluck Jonathan’s residence. The 2023 elections most especially the PDP’s primary poll ought to have driven Nyesom Wike to his former principal’s residence for consultation.
The former president was among those who helped Nyesom Wike’s political career. Jonathan made Wike a member of his cabinet when he (Jonathan) was in power as the Nigerian president. But Wike may not consult him in his own bid for the office occupied by Jonathan.
Wike had gone to Niger State, he had also been in Gombe State to woo the PDP’s chieftains and members there. But why would he not meet the ex president? The reasons are understandable.
Bala Mohammed was a bit faster than Nyesom Wike. The Bauchi State governor had been at Jonathan’s residence over the issue of PDP’s ticket. Mohammed is also competing for the seat of the president. Hence, he went to meet Jonathan.
Surely, Jonathan granted him attention and audience. He allowed the Bauchi State governor to express his dream of leading the country. Both Wike and Mohammed served in the cabinet of Jonathan as ministers. But the former minister of the Federal Capital Territory was quicker than Wike.
Jonathan didn’t actually anoint him. Yet the ex president asked Mohammed to continue his work and consultation. Wike might have concluded within himself that he wouldn’t be able to convince Jonathan anymore. Therefore, he may not consult the Bayelsa born politician.
The second reason is based on unverified rumours. On several occasions, Jonathan has been linked to 2023 presidency. He voluntarily handed over to Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. And the rumours have it that Buhari may likely hand over to him (Jonathan).
To make it more complicated, the rumours have it further that the former president would use the All Progressives Congress platform. It was the same APC that sent him out of power in 2015. Jonathan would rather keep quiet.
However, Wike might have concluded. He was argued that Jonathan shouldn’t leave the PDP to join the APC. And he really meant what he said. This might make him to look away and snub the former president in his consultation.


Share this on WhatsApp