Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Special Military Task Force in Plateau State, code named Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), has recovered 517 small arms and light weapons from criminal elements in the State.
The Taskforce said among the arms recovered are also 40 automatic weapons and 477 locally fabricated guns.
The weapons also includes 27 Ak 47 rifles, 1 FN rifles, 2Berretta rifles, 3 G3, 6 Beretta pistol, 1 Harris Burg pistol and 1 SMG.
Also recovered were locally fabricated weapons comprises of 183 rifles, 163 Dane Guns, 102 pistols and 19 SMG.
Others include; 6 single Barrel Gun and 1 pump Action.
The Task Force Commander, Maj. Gen. Ibrahim Ali disclosed this Thursday during a press briefing in Jos while handing over the small arms and light weapons to the Zonal Coordinator, North Central, National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and light weapons (ACCSALW), held at the Headquarters of Operation SAFE HAVEN in Jos.
“The Operational successes recorded by troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN recently led to the recovery of the firearms”, Ali said.
He dispelled the unfounded campaign of calumny trending on some social media platforms that he has been compromising and taking side with a particular ethnic group in the conflict between farmers and herders in Plateau.
According to him: “Contrary to this falsehood, it is pertinent to note that as a member of the Armed Forces, I have sworn my allegiance to defend the country and protect the lives and properties of all citizens devoid of any ethnic, religious or pecuniary sentiments.”
He appreciated citizens who provided credible information that led to the success of the arms recovery and urged the troops to sustain the tempo in order to decisively curtail the activities of criminals elements in their joint Area of operation.
Receiving the weapons, the Zonal Coordinator, North Central, National Centre for the Control of Small Arms, Major Gen. Hamza Bature (Rtd) appreciated the troops and urged the public to always give necessary information to mop out illegal firearms from the hands of the public.
“I encourage the Operation SAFE HAVEN to step up the tide to ensure that we recover all firearms from the society, knowing that we are moving towards the election and we want everybody to be on the same page”, he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp