Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Plots to install the Minister For Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi as the Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress APC, by some Senators under the Platform of the Party, may not Succeed in 2023.
It was reported about two weeks ago, that some APC Senators are looking for all means to ensure, that Amaechi emerge as the Presidential Candidate of the Party.

It should be recalled that, there have been several rumours about Amaechi’s Presidential Ambition to contest Presidential race, under the Platform of the Party.
Though, Amaechi had recently made it Known to the Public, that he may not contest Presidential race in 2023. He stated this, when he was granted an interview, with Arise TV.
Amaechi stated further that anyone who wants him to contest Presidential race, should give him money to do so.
However, the Plots to install Amaechi, as Presidential Candidate of APC by the Senators, under the Platform of the Party, may not Succeed due to some reasons.
The reason is that APC Senators, who are in support of Amaechi are minorities at the National Assembly.
It should be recalled that the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, had earlier visited the APC Senators, at the National Assembly to seek for their support, over his Presidential Ambition.
Tinubu was welcomed at the National Assembly and majority of them, are in support of Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition. This can make it difficult for Amaechi to emerge as Presidential Candidate of the Party.
Another Point is that Amaechi do not have the grip of APC Governors, that will determine his Emergence as Presidential Candidate of the Party.
If APC Leaders could Pick the Presidential Candidate of the Party through Consensus, all the APC Stakeholders will be carried along, and they may not support Amaechi to emerge as Presidential Candidate of the Party.
Though, It was rumoured that Amaechi is an annointed Presidential Aspirant of President Muhammadu Buhari. It was also Rumoured that the National Chairman of APC, was installed to influence the Presidential Ambition of Amaechi.
Meanwhile, the statement credited to Amaechi that he won’t contest Presidential race in 2023, may also affect his Presidential Ambition, if at all he will contest Presidential race, because some Leaders of the Party will see him as someone, who is not consistent.
Some members of the Party, may not support his Presidential Ambition, if eventually he contests Presidential race in 2023. As a result of this, APC Senators may not be able to influence Amaechi’s Presidential Ambition without the support of APC Governors.
This is just an opinion, anyone having contrary Opinions should criticize the write up constructively without. Kindly Like, Share and comment reasonably


Share this on WhatsApp