Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


One of the common causes of death in this part of the world is cancer. Skin cancer, breast cancer, kidney cancer, and lung cancer. Some of us don’t know how they happen.
It’s good to smell good when going out, but for health purposes, it’s best to avoid applying antiperspirant. The following are reasons why you should avoid it:
1. According to Healthline, some cosmetic products, especially antiperspirants, when you apply an antiperspirant under your armpit, it does two things. The smell from it is supposed to shield body odor.
But apart from that, an antiperspirant also blocks the sweat pores under your armpits, so sweat doesn’t come out and your body doesn’t smell. Some people do this to their bodies because they want to be sociable.
2. The sweat pores under your armpit are there to help you eliminate toxins from your body so they don’t build up to poisonous levels. As soon as you block those skin pores under your armpit, then you are ceiling into your body with dangerous poison. You’re not allowing them to come out.
3. Toxic waste usually backs up into fatty tissue in the body. If it cannot find a way to escape from your body, it will locate anywhere there is plenty of fat and it will go and sit there as a warehouse.
4. For ladies, when you are applying antiperspirants and you block the sweat pores under your armpit, and they cannot come out, it will locate your breast. That’s the nearest fatty tissue, and it will go there and sit inside there.
By the time it builds up inside your breast over a long period, it reaches dangerous levels. It begins to damage the DNA structure of your cells within the breast. That leads to breast cancer. It’s one of the causes of breast cancer.
5. For men, it can locate other areas of fatty tissue, and that can also damage the DNA there. For men, sometimes their prostate or the brain are tampered with. That’s one of the causes of brain tumors.
In addition, if you are a cancer patient, you should not touch sugar at all because sugar is a cancer food. Animal protein is also a cancer food. Animal protein and refined sugar should not be eaten by cancer patients.
Anyone treating cancer should become a vegetarian. That’s the best way to go about this. It will help build your body’s immune system to fight cancer.
There are some of these other things that they apply to the skin, chemicals from cosmetics that cause skin cancer, which should be avoided.


Share this on WhatsApp