Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Minister of transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, officially joined the 2023 presidential race on the platform of All Progressive Congress (APC) yesterday.
Ameachi, a former Rivers State Governor will battle for the APC ticket with other presidential aspirants like former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Governor of Kogi state, Yahaya Bello, former Imo state Governor, Rochas Okorocha and others.
Among the notable APC chieftains present at Amaechi’s presidential declaration was former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The former Edo Governor is believed to be a strong ally of Tinubu, one of the presidential aspirants. Tinubu sent congratulatory message to him when he marked his 70th birthday few days ago.
Prior to his removal as APC national chairman in June 2020, there are reports that Tinubu picked him to occupy that position. In fact there are speculations that the National Working Committee led by Oshiomhole may be working for the actualization of Tinubu’s presidential ambition before it was dissolved by the National Executive Council of the APC.
His presence at Amaechi’s declaration has been raising eyebrows among political enthusiasts who have been following political events in the country.
So why was the former Edo Governor present at Amaechi’s presidential declaration considering his close relationship with Tinubu?
In my opinion, as the former APC national chairman, Oshiomhole reserves the right to attend the presidential declaration of any member of the party if he was invited to attend. The former Edo Governor has not spoken publicly about his preferred candidate to fly the APC flag in 2023. Consequently, his presence at one of the party members declaration should not be viewed as an endorsement until he publicly endorses someone.
Also, Tinubu has yet to organise a public event that will attract notable APC chieftains like Oshiomhole and others where he will formally declare his presidential ambition like Ameachi did yesterday. I am of the view that Oshiomhole will also be present when he eventually organises his own public declaration.


Share this on WhatsApp