Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

says head must roll

The Action Democratic Party ADP has berated the President Mohammadu Buhari led federal government for gross incompetence and outright failure in the delivery of good governance,owing to the recent deadly attack of an Abuja-Kaduna Bound Train, leaving scores of people dead.

Piqued by the repeated attacks,wanton killings, pillaging,abduction and kidnapping of innocent Nigerians by a murderous band of marauders along that particular northern axis of the country, ADP maintained that serious steps need be taken to salvage the situation and forestall the festering anarchy that steers the nation right in the face.

ADP National Chairman Engr. Yagbagi Yusuf Sani made this assertions at a press parley held on Thursday in Ikoyi,Lagos, calling for the sack of the Minister of Transportation Mr Rotimi Ameachi

According the ADP Chairman, recent developments greatly affirms the ineptitude and none proactiveness of the APC government.

“The dastardly incident has eroded whatever modicum of ambiguities that was there to the conclusion that the APC government, under Buhari, is an unmitigated disaster and a woeful failure in the discharge of the universally recognized primary function of government which is, the provision of security and safety of the people.

“A portrayal of the high level of the lackluster disposition, corruption, debauchery and myopia of the officials of this government put in charge of our national assets and our security. “

Yagbagi also noted that given the closeness of the sad occurrence,which happened in quick succession shows that is enough a pointed that necessary security measures need to have been taken.

“The bombardment and assault on the train last Monday occurred barely one week after a brazen daylight invasion of the Kaduna International airport by another horde of highly armed terrorists.



He also raised a poser analysing what went wrong.

“How was it possible for the over two hundred heavily armed terrorists who rode on motor bikes, to have been able to gain access to the vicinity of the airport and to the tarmac, with ease?

“The invaders also amazingly, operated and disappeared into the thin air without any arrest or casualties on their part!

“The only plausible and logical explanation is that, the airport had been left without any level of security surveillance equipment and was also, bereft of enough, if there were any at all, security personnel on ground.

He also cited the fact that the Nigerian Defence Academy and the Federal School of Forestry Science, Afaka were institutions closed to the scene of the train attack were also seriously hit by the terrorists in time past.

ADP maintained that:“The high level of laxity as apparent in that axis that made it so easy for another experience within a short space of time, is an apt depiction of the high level of lack of security consciousness or, lackadaisical dispositions of the APC Federal government and those officials superintending over the various sensitive aspects of our national affairs.

The attack in his view smacks off a clear misnomer in the nation’s security architecture.

“It is a manifestation of the decadence and abysmal level of degeneration in the nation’s security architecture, just as it shows that, those who are supposedly keeping watch over us, are in deep slumber.

“It can be said that it is, in the DNA of the APC to remain a rudderless, wobbling vessel inevitably fated to experience a shipwreck.

Yagbagi noted that the build ups to the eventual series of attacks should have been perceived as signal for the need to buffer security apparatus in the affected areas.

He blamed the perceived cluelessness of the administration on the manner of arrangement that brought it be.

“The party did not bother to work out a coherent blueprint for the development and progress of the country or, for uplifting the well-being of the general citizenry. “ Yagbagi said.

He also reiterated the several calls by ADP on certain expedient moves, required to stem the ugly trend which requires,“reinvention of the nation’s security architecture by way of boosting the obvious shortage of manpower in the security agencies.

“Drastic, radical measures to redress the challenge of paucity of sophisticated modern armament and gadgets in the arsenal of the nation’s Armed Forces.

 “Honest commitment to the crucial issue of boosting the morale of members of the security agencies by enhancing their welfare and conditions of service.

“The APC government in the last seven years, has been steadily piloting the ship of the nation aground because its chieftains are more disposed to the allure of egregious corruption and rapacious kleptomania.”

ADP tabled various demands that APC need to attend to promptly to save the nation from an eventual capsize.

“No stone should remain unturned in the efforts to rescue the hapless victims taken away as hostages by the satanic and monstrous agents of darkness.

“Federal Government must be fully and comprehensively responsible for all the medical bills of the victims.

“Buhari administration need to own up to its failings and ineptitude by paying full compensation to families of those who lost their lives as well as,  for the valuables lost by victims to the marauders.
He maintained that President Buhari should demonstrate dynamic leadership, care and sensitivity to the feelings of citizens by ensuring that heads are made to roll due the train attack.
“The security Chiefs, who have manifested gross incompetence, lack of vision, diligence and dereliction of duty and the Minister of Transportation whose incapacities have severally manifested in the different departments under his purview.
“ Of course, these people., should be made to face the music if, as it would have been the case in civilized climes, they lack on their own, the honour and nobility of mind to do the needful.”


Share this on WhatsApp