Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Nigerians have taken to twitter to react to the declaration of the Serving Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Pastor Tunde Bakare, at the weekend to vie for Nigeria’s oval office and succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2023.
It would be recalled that the outspoken cleric on Saturday announced his intention during a virtual meeting tagged ‘Unveiling Project 16 to Nigerians in Diaspora’, with the theme ‘The portrait of a new Nigeria’, organised by the PTB4Nigeria in diaspora group.
Bakare who was running mate of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2011 presidential elections under the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) said his decision to join the 2023 presidential race was against the backdrop of the prevailing state of the nation.
However, Nigerians have taken to twitter to react to Pastor Bakare’s official presidential declaration.
While some Nigerians mocked the popular tele-evangelist for joining the 2023 presidential race, others encouraged him to throw his hat in the ring and rescue the country.
READ ALSO: BREAKING: Tunde Bakare declares for President
One of the Twitter user, @novieverest said Bakare is number 16
“Buhari is Moses, and Tunde Bakare is Joshua. As it is, Buhari has taken us to the next level of suffering, Tunde Bakare will cross us over to the permanent site.
Another user, @Vhicck tweets, “Now that Tunde Bakare has finally declared his interest to join the 2023 race, I’m expecting Chris Okotie to do the same so that the list of “Usual Suspects” will be complete.
@Etinosa_sama said, “Pastor Chris Okotie thinking about Tunde Bakare not being too FRESH to be president.
Another user, @scad_official said Tunde Bakare has a good chance of winning the presidential election. “That’s assuming he was contesting against Pastor Chris Okotie for C.A.N. President.
@UcheOkorafor4 tweeted, “I gave up on Tunde Bakare a long time ago. The more he speaks, the more I am justified.
Uche Okorafor in his own reaction on twitter said, “I gave up on Tunde Bakare a long time ago. The more he speaks, the more I am justified.
READ ALSO: After round trip to Villa, Bakare beats himself for criticizing Buhari
Sodunke Fadilat tweeted “Pastor Tunde Bakare declares intention to run for Presidency. He said ‘I have a vision of a new Nigeria and Nigerians will be proud if I’m elected president… “Okay.
@Libra_JK
“Sir @T_Bakare focus on your ministry and stop mixing things up. God spoke to you, God spoke to me and 500 other people… We’re way past all this nonsense. God didn’t speak since 2015 or is it a different God that spoke when you visited Aso Rock last year?
Meanwhile, one of the users with the handle, Otaigbe Imadegbelo, @Imudia_se2 said, “One good thing about Pastor Tunde Bakare’s congregants is that they are politically inclined. After your Bible, is your PVC. He has tried to teach them.
Share this on WhatsApp