Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The United States Embassy and Consulate in Nigeria in a statement on its website on Thursday April 21, 2022 announced no-interview visa renewals for Nigerian students seeking to continue their studies in the US.

The statement read in part: “If you are currently studying in the United States, you may be eligible to renew your student visa without an interview when you return to Nigeria this summer.
“To qualify for this procedure, you must be physically in Nigeria renewing a student visa that is still valid, or has expired within the past 24 months and is; renewing your visa either to: (a) continue participation in the same major course of study even if at a different institution; or (b) attend the same institution even if in a different major course of study.”
Specifically, the statement advised students applying from Abuja to visit: “www.ustraveldocs.com/ng and follow instructions to complete your application and visit a designated DHL facility to drop off your application.”
Also, Lagos applicants are also advised to visit: “www.ustraveldocs.com/ng and follow the instructions to make an interview waiver appointment for a student visa. You must come in person to the U.S. Consulate on the date and time of your appointment.”
Also, according to the statement, Abuja applicants are required to include with their application: “a printout of their Submission letter (printed from ustraveldocs.com/ng; completed DS-160; an approved I-20; receipt for your I-901 SEVIS fee; GTBank (MRV) receipt for your visa fee; your passport containing the expired student visa; and a passport photograph meeting these requirements.”
Appointment day
Meanwhile, all the documents will be; attached to the application and dropped off at the designated DHL facility.
Further, the statement also said Lagos applicants are required to visit the US Consulate on their appointment day and time; with “a completed DS-160; an approved I-20; receipt for your I-901 SEVIS fee; GTBank (MRV) receipt for your visa fee; your passport containing the expired student visa and passport photograph meeting these requirements.”
The statement advised students who do not meet the criteria stated above to schedule a regular appointment.
“If someone in your family or group, does not meet the qualifications above, they must schedule a regular appointment. Each applicant must meet the qualifications individually. For instance, we cannot accept a renewal for a child because the parent qualifies under these guidelines. In that case, the child would need to schedule an appointment and come to the Embassy or Consulate for an interview.
“To remove a dependent that does not qualify for a; student renewal from your profile, please follow these steps: Log in to the primary applicant’s profile; Click New Scheduling Appointment; Follow the steps until you reach Step 6; At step 6, check for the dependent’s information and click “x” to; remove the dependent’s information from the primary applicants’ profile.
Student renewal
“Scheduled applicants who qualify for the student renewal based on the above criteria can cancel their appointments and re-apply  . During the rescheduling process, you will be asked questions confirming; eligibility for the student renewal program, and be provided instructions on how to submit the application through the document delivery center.
In addition, the statement advised those who do not qualify for a student renewal not to cancel their appointment.



Share this on WhatsApp