L - R Mr. Paschal Samu , Zonal Coordinator Special Control Unit Against Money Laundering (SCUML) of the EFCC Lagos , Mrs. Taiwo Ganiyat Olusesi , Registrar CEO Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN) Mr. Daniel Isei ,Director (SCUML EFCC ) Mr. Taiwo ' Gbenga Owokolade President ICSAN & Mr. Francis Olawale , Honourary Treasurer ICSAN during a courtesy visit by the senior officials of the EFCC to ICSAN in Lagos recently

        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Managing Director of Punch Newspapers, Ademola Osinubi, and the Executive Secretary/CEO of Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria, Ambassador Shuaibu Adamu Ahmed are part of dignitaries expected at the 2022 Governance Practitioners organized by Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN) on Tuesday, April 12.
The ICSAN Governance Practitioners Day is a platform for bringing together professionals in the governance field, to brainstorm on issues relating to their profession and come up with ideas to expand the frontiers of knowledge in the governance field. The Forum is also used to contribute to trendy discourse on issues of national importance, relating to governance.
The theme for this year’s Governance Practitioners Day, is “Practical steps to boosting relationship with regulators”
Osinubi is expected to chair the occasion while the Keynote Speakers are the Executive Secretary/CEO Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRC), Ambassador Shuaibu Adamu Ahmed and the Registrar-General/CEO of the Corporate Affairs Commission, Alhaji Garba Abubakar.
READ ALSO: Owoturo, others to speak at ICSAN 2022 Company Secretaries, Registrars’ Forum
A number of seasoned and experienced Governance Professionals drawn largely from FRC, Corporate Affairs Commission, (CAC), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Special Control Unit Against Money Laundering (SCUML) among others have been lined up as the faculty for this programme.
The Chief Host is the President and Chairman of the Governing Council of the Institute, Mr. Taiwo ’Gbenga Owokalade, FCIS, while the hosts are the Chairmen, Board of Mentors and the Governance Practitioners Committee Mr. Olatunde Busari SAN, FCIS and Mr. Francis Olawale, FCIS respectively.
The Registrar of ICSAN, Mrs. Taiwo Olusesi,FCIS  promises that the participants will   have a  memorable and  exciting time at the event in terms of knowledge enrichment, upskilling as well as opportunity for networking.
Olusesi added: “This year’s Governance Practitioners’ Day is unique in many respects as it was conceived to consolidate on the successes of the previous ones.
Highlights of this exciting event are the unveiling of the Institute’s Board of Mentors, the practice stamp that will henceforth be used by members who are licensed by the Institute to practice as Governance practitioners as well as the revised Practice Guide. We shall also be replicating the event at other locations in the country within the year
This event attracts four credit-points for participating members of the Institute and this is first time we are allotting that number of credit for this programme”
Share this on WhatsApp