Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





Some Nigerians on social media have expressed reservations over Davido’s claim of spending not less than $30,000, an equivalent of N17 million, on a single night out.
The megastar had on Thursday posted his photos at a club on his verified social media accounts, with the caption: “A night out like this will cost me none less than $30,000 we do this to Inspire not oppress! Gang.”
While some Nigerians described the claim as outrageous and unwise, others said there was nothing inspiring about it.
A Facebook user, Edojouamrotu Promise, wrote, “Even Dangote doesn’t do that forget about all this lie jarey.”
A Twitter user, @ahmedsuleiman122, said, “Davido, learn to spend money wisely, you say you do this to inspire but the truth is that this is actually a waste of money, there are so many Nigerians out there that you could empower with this money, do better.”
@greatone_… felt the caption was unnecessary and oppressing:”I still don’t understand why you had to mention the amount of money you would spend if not to oppress others. There is nothing inspiring about it.”
Another Facebook user, Divine Otu, said “This is rubbish, don’t call it inspiration. it’s rubbish you can’t inspire someone by spending 30k in just one night, call it what it is: ‘Oppresion’. There are a lot like you out there but they don’t show this kind of inspiration.”
Friday Ibe: “You have problem on your own, must you tell world how much you spend before you’re considered a millionaire? A child will always is a child. Billions are better than you bro calm down.”
Charles Pemu: “To inspire what? Is it not desperation for wealth and riches without creativity and productivity that has prompted more criminality in our today society? Should you not know, majority of your fan are actually poor people but they’re being fans of your music, and I’m sure you know and you enjoy that. May God help this country economically so that morals and sense can be restored.”
Edwin Chunks: “Many Nigerian youths are too reckless and irresponsible in spending if they are opportuned. That was why all these old men in the government never took us serious. If you spent $30k how does that add to the economic quagmire facing this country? The youths can never learn.”
Davido was in the news in November when he donated N250 million to orphans.





Share this on WhatsApp