Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The federal government has lifted the midnight curfew, removed crowd restrictions at weddings and other social gatherings imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the country.
A major highlight of the revised measures by the committee is the removal of formal restrictions on movement within the country with the lifting of a nationwide curfew imposed from 12 midnight to 4am.
It has removed limitations on both domestic and international air travels, adding that the advisory limiting Nigerians to essential travels only has been lifted, although citizens need to refrain from non-essential movement and comply with non-pharmaceutical interventions guidelines such as the mandatory use of facemask/facial coverings in public, given the risks involved.
Other highlights include the lifting of limitations on the number of persons attending weddings, conferences, office parties, seminars, end of year events, others, as well as the lifting of the ban on concerts, street parties, carnivals, although use of facemasks is still mandatory for indoor events.
READ ALSO: FG relaxes COVID-19 mandate, says Face masks now optional
The statement partly reads, “Use of face mask to be mandatory for indoor activities but at individual’s discretion during outdoor activities; those aged 60 and above or with co-morbidities such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease are advised to uphold the use of universal precaution which includes the use of face mask, avoid crowd, and frequent use of hand sanitisers.
“No limitation on air travels – both domestic and international flights; both international and domestic travellers must abide by all existing protocols, including the use of face mask while onboard and taking personal precaution measures; and all arriving international passengers must register with the Nigeria International Travel Portal (https://nitp.ncdc.gov.ng) and abide by the travel guidelines.
“No limitations on inter or intra-state travel; all vendors and service providers must abide by stated stipulations from the Federal Ministry of Transportation; all passengers and commuters must wear face masks once on board, as well as continue to observe personal precautionary measures.”
The committee in the area of industry and labour, recommended virtual meetings by offices for the private sector and advised against large meetings. It asked operators to decongest offices and ensure they were well-ventilated.
READ ALSO: COVID-19: Face mask now optional as Ghana reviews protocol
According to it, normal work by all staff should resume in all offices while encouraging measures to reduce congestion such as working from home or on-and-off days.
Recall that in May 2021, the federal government announced the reintroduction of Covid-19 restrictions across all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), following the disturbing resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic.
The action was seen as part of pre-emptive measures taken by the government to mitigate the impact of the new variants of the disease, should they be imported into the country.
Share this on WhatsApp