Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






28-year-old Ifeayinwa, Widow of Chikere Obieshi, the businessman who was shot dead by a Police Inspector, Mohammed Husseini, during a birthday party held at La Silver bar on Ipaja road, Lagos, has spoke after the unfortunate incident.
NATIONAL DAILY had reported that two person were allegedly shot dead by a trigger-happy police officer at the venue of a birthday party organized at a bar in Lagos State.
The late Chikere popularly known as JB was said to have attended a birthday party organised by his friend, Ifeanyi Ucheudu Ancetus, at the bar located at 55 Ipaja Road, Lagos.
All of a sudden, the sound of a gunshot was released, thereby jostling everyone. But Chikere and another guest were shot. They died on the spot, while other guests sustained injuries.
Speaking with Vanguard at her residence at Folarin Jinadu street, Ifeayinwa, said she was yet to believe that her husband was gone.
The mother of three said: “The birthday was supposed to be held on Saturday, not Sunday. The celebrant doesn’t live in this neighbourhood. How he moved the celebration to our neighbourhood , for my husband to be killed is baffling. The celebrant called my husband more than three times insisting that he must attend his birthday party to honour him. When my husband got there, he called to say he would spend a few minutes there.
“Few minutes later, I heard there was a gun shot at the La Silver bar and that the celebrant ran out. Till now he is nowhere to be found and no communication from him. His telephone numbers have been switched off. So I feel this was a perfectly sealed deal.
“On Saturday, a day before the party, Ifeanyi called my husband telling him of his birthday, later he called and said it had been canceled and had been postponed to Sunday.
“On that day (Sunday) my husband took me to the hospital for a check up because I just had surgery. When we came back, we attended to visitors who came to see how I was faring. Later, he went to their Town’s meeting. On his way back, he stepped into La Silver bar and the rest is history. I believe that it was a setup”, she stated.
She therefore called for an in depth investigation into the demise of her husband.
Also lamenting, the deceased elder brother , Anyayochukwu Obieshi, said, ” since I received the news I have been asking God to wake me up from this nightmare.
“The policeman who was invited by Ifeanyi Ucheudu Ancetus, was inside the hall two hours before the arrival of my brother and there was no gunshot, immediately he arrived and began to spray the celebrant money, he fired the gun directly from behind, at my brother. It was a premeditated action.
“My brother was an indigenous son of Isiala Mbano ,Imo State. He was a legal businessman, he paid his taxes and deserved justice.”
“All those behind this action should be brought to book, that is the only way we can find solace.”






Share this on WhatsApp