Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
A former governor of Kano state and Senator representing Kano South, Kabiru Gaya has given reasons why Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would emerge victorious in the 2023 presidential election.
Senator Gaya disclosed this on Thursday after assuming duties as the director-general of the Osinbajo campaign, known as The Progressive Project (TPP).
He said for Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, the presidential race is not about personal ambition but about a positive response to populist calls from a citizen-driven mobilization that began without input from him or his office.
Gaya who was former governor of Kano between 1992 to1993 had been a patron of the Osinbajo Volunteers Movement and said his duty will be to coordinate for victory the various groups pushing the Osinbajo candidacy as President Buhari’s successor.
READ ALSO: 2023: Pro-Osinbajo group woos Taraba delegates
“Believe me, whichever of the three options is eventually chosen by APC’s experienced and forthright leadership, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will win! Much more than some people realize, a huge majority of party members and the electorate are with Osinbajo”.
“Note that people from other parties and even millions of non-partisan citizens who do not belong to any political party have strong interest and involvement with this campaign for Osinbajo’s candidature.
“Without an iota of doubt, I am certain that all the knowledgeable people here can attest to the qualities and competence of Professor Yemi Osinbajo.
“You will also agree with me that his chosen method redefines presidential declarations in Nigeria; he has clearly signalled that noble citizens have no need to descend into gutters. No touts were hired by anyone and his message effectively reverberated across the entire country and the Diaspora.
READ ALSO: Osinbajo prays for restoration, prosperity in Nigeria as Christians celebrate Easter Sunday
“However, by electing someone of Professor Yemi Osinbajo’s pedigree who has direct insight into the depth of our challenges as well as current strategies and tactics being laid out to tackle them, we have a great chance to move ahead without much waste of time.
“Nonetheless, a lot is being said by many; as genuine democrats and as Progressives, we shall continue to defend the constitutional rights of citizens to hold their own opinions but we must all be weary of those whose sole preoccupation is the propagation of such hate and suspicions that seek to hold our country down.”



Share this on WhatsApp