Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A summit of Enigie (Dukes), Chiefs and other stakeholders will soon be conveyed by the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II, to address insecurity, drug abuse, and developmental issues among others in Edo State.
The Benin Monarch disclosed this in his palace in Benin when OGBAKHA EDO, a socio-cultural group, paid him a courtesy visit to intimate him of the group’s existence and plans to develop the area.
According to the Benin royal father, “For some time now, I have been contemplating convening a sort of gathering or summit, it is like a summit but I prefer to call it a gathering because it is going to be a gathering of all Energies and chiefs in Benin and would be extended to Edo Central and Edo North Senatorial districts because all Edo people have their roots in Benin.
READ ALSO: Oba of Benin removes Abudu community from under Enogie of Evbuobanosa
“I want to unite all tribes in the state so that instead of everybody doing his own thing, we should remain united so that we can work together for the common good of our people.
He said in order to achieve the goal of addressing drug abuse, security and development they need the support of the energies and chiefs in their different domains as well as other groups…
He pledged to work with all groups in the state for the development of the Benin kingdom and the state at large.
Earlier, the President of the group Sam Guobadia, said they were at the place to inform the Monarch of the groups’ planned activities and also seek royal blessing
He said the group is out to identify with the people, empower those who need empowerment and encourage those who want to go to school for the good of everybody in the community.
He said, “There is a high level of unemployment and as stakeholders, we don’t want to sit back without doing something and we want to help our members and non-members. That is what we stand for”.
He said the group was also out to enlighten those in positions of authority, saying that they are there to serve the people and sensitize the people on the need to go out and vote
“So, the issues are on economy, politics, security, cultural heritage and engagement of the youths. This is our priority,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp