Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Mr Babajide Kolade Otitoju revealed on Wednesday, on TVC’s flagship program, Journalist Hangout, his surprise that President Muhammadu Buhari could be in a meeting where presidential nomination form would be pegged at N100 million. While addressing the trending issues arising from the meeting of the APC national working committee earlier on Wednesday, he stated that the same President complained about the N27 million charged in 2014. He wondered why the President could not use his influence to bring down the price, noting that the PDP’s form is sold for just N40 million.


According to the Guardian Newspaper, there is an uproar over the schedule of fees for expression of interest and nomination forms released by the NWC at Wednesday’s meeting. The governorship and the Senate forms will go for N50 million and N20 million respectively. While the House of Representatives and State House of Assembly aspirants would purchase theirs at N10 million and N2 million respectively.
It was noted that the N100 million fee for the Presidential nomination form is over 100 per cent increase from the amount it was sold for in 2018 which was N45 million; and nearly 200 per cent more than the N27 million it was sold for in 2014. Also, the APC fee is more than double that of the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with its form selling for N40 million.
Despite the uproar generated by this announcement, the NEC insisted that it would begin selling the nomination and expression of interest forms for various electoral offices from April 23 to May 6, 2022
So far many Presidential aspirants that have declared their interests in APC and they include: the party’s national leader, Bola Tinubu; the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi. Others are Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello; ex-governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; former governor of Abia State and Majority Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu as well as the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi.







Share this on WhatsApp