Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
National Daily had previously reported that Ronaldo and his partner Georgina Rodriguez announced in October that they were expecting twins.
Sadly, National Daily can confirm that Ronaldo and Georgina lost one of the twins as revealed by the Manchester United forward.
The Portuguese who returned to United’s training ground on Wednesday afternoon after being granted compassionate leave and played no part in United’s 4-0 defeat to Liverpool at Anfield on Tuesday evening had earlier disclosed on Monday evening that their baby son had died during childbirth, while their newborn daughter survived.
In his statement announcing the news, Ronaldo wrote: ‘It is with our deepest sadness we have to announce that our baby boy has passed away. It is the greatest pain that any parents can feel,’ the announcement read
‘Only the birth of our baby girl gives us the strength to live this moment with some hope and happiness. We would like to thank the doctors and nurses for all their expert care and support.
‘We are all devastated at this loss and we kindly ask for privacy at this very difficult time. Our baby boy, you are our angel. We will always love you.’
‘It is the greatest pain that any parents can feel. Only the birth of our baby girl gives us the strength to live this moment with some hope and happiness.
‘We would like to thank the doctors and nurses for all their expert care and support. We are all devastated at this loss and we kindly ask for privacy at this very difficult time. Our baby boy, you are our angel. We will always love you.’
Sequel to the unfortunate incident, United have already confirmed that Ronaldo will not play any part as they visited Anfield to face Liverpool in the English Premier League encounter on Tuesday night and were yhumped 4-0.
Tributes have since come the way of the five-time Ballon d’Or Award winner and his family and even from the strangest places especially coming from the fans of Liverpool being United’s fiercest rivals.
Anfield fans on a Liverpool supporters group on Facebook had earlier called on those who were attending the match at Anfield to hold a minute’s applause for Ronaldo and his partner in the seventh minute of the game.
Part of the message on the group read: ‘Rivalries should be set aside in heartbreaking circumstances such as these. You’ll Never Walk Alone, CR7 Jr.’
And the above was emotionally accomplished as the football world stood still for Ronaldo at Anfield at the seventh minute in a tribute to the Portuga            l captain and his family.
Following the gesture from Liverpool, Ronaldo’s sister Elma shared footage of the tribute on her Instagram account with the message: ‘Thank you for this Liverpool. We will never forget what you did today.’
Ronaldo’s other sister, Katia, also shared the clip of Liverpool fans applauding and wrote: ‘Way beyond football.’
Speaking about the tribute after the game, Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said: ‘My moment of the game was the seventh minute when the whole stadium showed pure class, so many things are much more important in life than football.
‘We feel for Cristiano and his family. That was my moment of the game.’
Meanwhile, the Old Trafford club had expressed their own tribute to Ronaldo and his family which was released on Tuesday, United said: ‘Family is more important than everything and Ronaldo is supporting his loved ones at this immensely difficult time.
‘As such, we can confirm that he will not feature in the match against Liverpool at Anfield on Tuesday evening and we underline the family’s request for privacy.
‘Cristiano, we are all thinking of you and sending strength to the family.’
More tributes have come from the way of Ronaldo’s team-mate and England international Marcus Rashford who led the tributes, saying on Twitter: ‘Thoughts are with you and Georgina brother. I’m so sorry.’
Ronaldo’s sister, Katia Aveiro, said on Instagram: ‘I love you and my heart is all there on this side… May God take care of everything and strengthen your path more and more…
‘Our little angel is already in her father’s lap, and our little girl who is here firm and strong and full of health will teach us more and more that only love matters…’ 
Jamaican world-record sprinter Usain Bolt, who is a United fan, replied to Ronaldo’s Instagram post with three praying emojis, while Piers Morgan said: ‘Heartbreaking news. My deepest condolences to you and all your family.’
Gary Lineker tweeted: ‘Terribly sad news. Sincere condolences to you and your family.’
His club Manchester United stated their support, saying: ‘Your pain is our pain. Sending love and strength to you and the family at this time.’
Ronaldo’s mother Dolores Aveiro replied to the Instagram with a sad-face emoji, while Diogo Dalot replied with a love heart.’
Other team-mates such as David de Gea and Alex Telles like Dalot also replied with love-heart emojis as the dressing-room sent their support to their star player.
 
Share this on WhatsApp