Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The politics involved in the race for the 2023 presidential election across party lines is becoming more fierce day after day even as new notable politicians keep emerging as aspirants for the 2023 presidential election. For this reason, no political party has closed the sale of its nomination and expression of interest form with the hope that more people may still declare intentions to run for the office of the president. Some political parties have extended the sale of their forms with the hope that there may be defection of politicians from other political parties to their parties.
As the journey for the 2023 presidential election continues to unfold with several intrigues, political parties and aspirants are beginning to re-strategize and plan more adequately in order to avoid defeat at the polls. On the platform of the all progressives congress, presidential aspirants in the likes of Ahmed Bola Tinubu, vice president Yemi Osinbajo, Rotimi Amaechi and many others have officially declared to compete for the APC’s presidential ticket. Of all the aspirants, Ahmed Tinubu and Yemi Osinbajo have been rumoured to be the favourites for the ticket.
Tinubu’s hope of grabbing the APC’s presidential ticket may seem to be experiencing some hitches at the moment given certain reasons.
Firstly, The recent reports on several verified news platforms linking Nigeria’s former president, Goodluck Jonathan to the all progressives congress and the plan to handover the party’s presidential ticket to him should he agreed to join them may truly be disturbing to Tinubu’s camp. If Goodluck Jonathan agrees to join the all progressives congress, then it is certain that he is going to get the ticket. This will go a long way to affect Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential ambition.
Secondly, the all progressives congress is still observing how politics is playing out in the people’s democratic party. In the event that that it is crystal clear to them that the PDP is giving its presidential ticket to Atiku Abubakar, the all progressives congress may not consider giving its ticket to Tinubu because being a muslim, Tinubu will be forced to pick a christian running mate from the north central which may not go well for the party at the polls. More so, since Tinubu may not be running with a strong core northern politician, the core North will decide to vote for their own, Atiku Abubakar to ensure that power remains in the north.


Share this on WhatsApp