Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGov. Douye Diri of Bayelsa has condemned the assassination of Mr Sunday Frank-Oputu, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in his Yenagoa residence by gunmen.
Diri, who condemned the development in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabra, on Wednesday in Yenagoa, directed the police in the state to fish out killers of the APC chieftain.
He said that Frank-Oputu was assassinated by yet to be identified gunmen on Tuesday night.
Diri, who was quoted as condemning the killing at the 73rd State Executive Council meeting, described the incident as most unfortunate and unacceptable.
“We received the sad news of the assassination of Sunday Frank-Oputu. Let me say that killing does not settle scores. We cannot bequeath a state of killings to our children.
“Let us build our brothers and sisters, and not to assassinate them. On behalf of our government, we send heartfelt condolences to the family.
“We have put the security agencies on their toes to go after the killers. We will do everything within our powers to track down those responsible.
”Our state has been very peaceful and there is no reason for any man to take the life of another,” he said.
The governor called on politicians to play politics devoid of violence.
He gave assurance that those behind the dastardly act would be unmasked and made to face the wrath of the law.
Diri expressed his condolences and that of the government to the immediate family of the deceased.
He also decried the burning of the houses of a serving House of Representatives member and that of his brother in Aghoro Community, Ekeremor Local Government Area, describing it as uncalled for.
“In Aghoro, the homes of a member of the House of Representatives and that of his brother was razed. I hereby disband the community leadership in that community,” he said.
Diri gave assurance that the perpetrators would be brought to book to serve as deterrent to others.
He said that as an immediate measure to maintain security, the leadership of the community had been sacked until further notice.
He called on the people of the state to embrace peace at all times and learn to be their brother’s keeper.
Share this on WhatsApp