Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


All over the world, cancer is considered one of the most dreaded and complex diseases, with there being many types and potential causes of the disease. According to Healthline, many factors, which include genetic makeup, family history, as well as certain external factors (lifestyle habits) often play certain roles in its development.

Food or diet is one of the most important lifestyle factors that affect several aspects of human health, with many foods now linked to a higher risk of the development of certain types of cancer. Most of such foods have been scientifically proven to be capable of increasing the risk of type 2 diabetes and obesity, with the two ailments known to encourage certain cancers.
On the other hand are certain foods that contain carcinogens or harmful substances capable of causing cancer. This article, therefore, would be looking at specific foods and beverages capable of increasing your risk of cancer, especially when such foods are consumed excessively over time. The foods are examined below:
1. Processed meatsView pictures in App save up to 80% data.
According to Kirsten Nunez of Healthline, processed meat refers to any type of meat whose mode of preservation involves smoking, salting, curing or canning, with red meats constituting a large proportion of processed meat. Red meats that are often processed include hot dogs, sausage, corned beef, ham, and beef jerky.
It is believed that the methods often employed in the preparation of these processed meats lead to the synthesis of carcinogens. For example, curing meat with nitrite can lead to the formation of N-nitroso compounds, a carcinogenic substance. Also, smoking can lead to carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), with this capable of leading to leading to colorectal and breast cancers.
2. Fried foodsA compound known as acrylamide is usually created when starchy foods are cooked at high temperatures involving frying, baking, roasting, and toasting. Fried foods such as fried potato products like french fries and potato chips are usually high in acrylamide, a substance considered carcinogenic to rats and believed to have the same effect on humans.
Eating fried foods in excess can also increase your risk for type 2 diabetes and obesity, with both conditions linked to the promotion of oxidative stress and inflammation. Increased oxidative stress and inflammation within the body are thought of by scientists as two other potent triggers of certain cancers in some people.
3. Overcooked foodsOvercooking your meals can also increase your risk of cancer, as it is capable of creating carcinogens. For instance, cooking meats with high heat causes the production of carcinogenic PAHs and heterocyclic amines (HCAs), with both substances known to increase the risk of cancer by the alteration of an individual’s DNA cells.
You might invariably be overcooking your meats when you employ cooking methods such as grilling, pan-frying, and barbecuing. Overcooking starchy foods such as potatoes can also contribute to cancer development as it increases acrylamide formation. Thus, you can reduce your risk of certain cancer by reducing your intake of overcooked meals.
4. Sugar and refined carbohydratesKirsten Nunez of Healthline believes that sugary foods and refined carbohydrates are capable of increasing your risk for cancer, albeit indirectly. Foods such as baked goods, white pasta, white bread, white rice, sugary cereals, and sugar-sweetened beverages should not be consumed in excess as they can lead to type 2 diabetes and obesity.
These two conditions, may, in turn, increase your risk for certain types of cancer. Type 2 diabetes is known to increase the risk for ovarian, breast, and uterine cancer, while high blood glucose levels, on the other hand, can increase the risk for colorectal cancer. You should consider the increased intake of foods such as whole grain bread, whole grain pasta, brown rice, and oats.
5. DairyDairy foods such as milk, cheese, and yoghurt are also to be taken in moderation, as there has been evidence linking their high intake with an increased risk of prostate cancer. Their consumption increases the levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), which is associated with a higher risk of prostate cancer.
6. AlcoholThe consumption of alcohol often causes your liver to break down the consumed alcohol into a carcinogenic compound known as acetaldehyde. This compound promotes DNA damage, and oxidative stress, as well as interfering with the immune system, thus making it difficult for the body to fight precancerous and cancerous cells.
Thanks for coming this far, kindly like and share this article with other people and do follow this page for more quality updates.


Share this on WhatsApp