Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Bauchi State governor Bala Mohammed has given reasons why he would not contest the presidency of Nigeria if former President Godluck Jonathan decided to contest the position.
Mohammed who is one of the presidential aspirants of the PDP for the 2023 election disclosed this on Monday while addressing his supporters in Abuja.
He thanked Goodluck Jonathan for making him a minister in 2010 despite not belonging to the same party.
Recall that Jonathan, the incumbent president at the time, was a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while Mohammed belonged to the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP).
“If Goodluck Jonathan ever joins the race, then I can’t run against him. He brought me into the limelight, he is my boss, my mentor, my friend and my leader.
READ ALSO: 2023: Goodluck Jonathan reacts as posters re-surfaces in Abuja, APC headquarters
“I will have to talk to him before I proceed with this. I can never run against a man who made me relevant today in politics, he is a good man, he was a good president
Mohammed also commented on the presidential ambition of former governor of Lagos state, Bola Tinubu, describing him as one of Nigeria’s leading politicians and leaders.
Tinubu is also one of the frontliners for the presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Mohammed said despite being a PDP presidential aspirant, he has great admiration for Tinubu, who was Lagos State governor between 1999 and 2007.
He credited Tinubu for the formation of the APC and the subsequent election of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 to unseat former President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP.
“I told him (Tinubu), if you were in PDP, we would have given you the (presidential) ticket because we know that without you, (Muhammadu) Buhari wouldn’t have been the president.
“We must replicate the 2015 experience by ensuring a free, fair and violent free election in 2023. Ensure fair play and build bridges where necessary. Our journey is irreversible. You must remain focused on issues that strengthen the nation,” Mrs. Buhari said.
She also noted it was “high time women were adopted as running mates at all levels considering their voting strength and active involvement in political processes.”
Share this on WhatsApp