Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The exit of the France international Paul Pogba from United has remained eminent. The move away of the midfielder from Old Trafford has dominated the transfer speculations in previous times especially when the 29-year-old and his agent Mino Raiola have done little or nothing to manage the subject.
National Daily understands that Pogba who made a sensational return to United from Juventus in an £89 million deal in 2016, is expected to leave the club once his contract expires at the end of the season.
Meanwhile, it appears that the midfielder may have already played his final game for United after a calf injury forced him off in last week’s defeat to Liverpool at Anfield.
National Daily further gathered from the report by The Mirror that Pogba has already removed himself from the United’s squad WhatsApp group which the players use to communicate with each other after making teammates aware that he will be leaving.
National Daily however understands that the former Juventus midfielder’s is likely returning to France with Paris Saint-Germain set to be his possible destination given that the midfielder and his family are keen on a move to the French capital.
It is meanwhile understood that the Red Devils are also ready to accept Pogba’s departure come the end of the season. Speaking before United’s defeat to Arsenal at the weekend, United manager Ralf Rangnick suggested that even Erik ten Hag would not want the club to renew Pogba’s contract.
As it seems right now, he will not renew his contract and, I don’t know, maybe the club or Erik will not want to renew his contract. It’s most likely he won’t be here next season,’ said Rangnick.
‘He’s a player who won the World Cup; he’s such a good player that he was a regular starter for France. We all know what kind of potential he has and what kind of good player he can be.
‘He was like quite a few other players struggling to get his best performance sustainably on the pitch for a team like Man United.
‘This has not only been the case this season or in the past couple of weeks. As far as I remember, it was also the case in earlier years.’
 
Share this on WhatsApp