Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Governor Sanwo-Olu hosting the Local Organising Committee (LOC) Nigeria of the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) in a courtesy visit at Lagos House, Marina, said that the State Government will work with consulting engineering and architectural firms to prevent the collapse of buildings in the State.
Governor Sanwo-Olu, reiterating his administration’s commitment to the provision of infrastructure for Lagos residents, said infrastructure is one of the ways in which societal problems can be solved. “It is something that we are looking holistically at believing that we want to improve the lots of our citizens given the political chance that God has given us,” he noted.
He said the State Government is in the process of identifying consulting engineering and architectural firms to help with monitoring building construction. “We believe that structural engineers and others can help by doing an independent assessment to ensure that everybody adheres to the rules. And the government can continue to do oversight function working with competent, capable consulting engineering and architectural firms so that we can monitor the city and prevent the collapse of a building.”
The President of the Association for Consulting Engineering in Nigeria (ACEN), Engr. Ajibade Oke, commended Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration in the area of infrastructure. “The infrastructure in Lagos is fantastic. Look at the blue and red line rail, the BRTs, the flyover, bridges and other amenities that we are having in Lagos. We are even talking about Fourth Mainland Bridge. We thank God for the people that are managing Lagos State,” he said.
Also speaking, the Chairman, Local Organising Committee of FIDIC for the Africa 2022 Conference and past President of the Association for Consulting Engineering in Nigeria (ACEN), Engr. Charles Akindayomi, appealed for the Lagos State Government’s support of the conference which is expected to be attended by about 250 delegates from different parts of the world, noting that the support will give the State an opportunity to display the rich culture and infrastructure development to the rest of Africa.
Share this on WhatsApp