Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGovernor of Rivers State and PDP presidential aspirant Nyesom Wike has cautioned the party not to lose him.
He also emphasized during the party NWC  meeting Tuesdy he is the best candidate for the presidential election.
Wike charged the party leadership to reward his loyalty to the party with the Presidential ticket in the party primary slated for 28th and 29th May.
“So I believe am a thorough party person. And should be encouraged to lead the party. It’s very, very important. I know the modus operandi of APC, I can withstand the APC, I can withstand the Federal Government, just give me the ticket,” Wike said.
On consensus Presidential candidate, Wike queried that “when we did our convention in 2018 about 10 people contested. There was no consensus. Why in 2019, why are they talking about consensus?”
“I don’t believe in these people going around on consensus. I told them that their consensus move is shine shine bobo, the more you look, the less you see. I say am not going to buy it. It will not work and am not a party to it, he stated.
“Anything short of a free, fair, credible and transparent national convention will be challenged by some of us,” he said.
“I will also advise, that this time we are in, is a litigation period. There is no election where you don’t see litigation, there is none. It will come. So that we don’t run into problems again, you should try as much as you can if you can not vacate such an order, try as much as you can to assign people and settle it.
“There is no issue that can not be resolved if you are open and transparent.
“The household name now is Wike, so don’t make mistake and lose Wike. Because if you lose Wike, you have lost the election. It is not our prayer that we should lose the election.
“So it is important you do the campaign for me, that was how I did it for you too. When I was fighting the former NWC, some of you were supporting them. Now all of you are here.
“One good turn deserves another. So you people should also payback. Because you didn’t go to campaign, but now am campaigning to you. So payback. But please do us the favor to conduct a free and fair election, that will be an advantage for us to win in 2023”.
In his response, PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu told the Rivers State Governor to choose between their support and them providing a level playing field for all Presidential aspirants.
He said, “Incidentally you want a level playing field from the National Working Committee (NWC). On the other hand, you want the NWC to canvass vote for you and vote for you. You have to choose one, you can’t have both.
“I assure you that there will be no foul play, no manipulation and we will certainly do better than all previous National Convention.
“All our presidential aspirants should stick to issues, they should not attack themselves. By attacking each other you undermine the party because you will give the opposition the necessary ammunition to attack us when the candidate emerges”.
Share this on WhatsApp