Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), on Wednesday, condemned the killings of scores of innocent Nigerians in Plateau and Benue States, describing it as unbecoming.
HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, also backed Benue State governor, Samuel Ortom’s umpteenth call for people of the Middle Belt to carry weapons and defend themselves against rampaging marauders who have no sanctity for human lives.
The group said the need for self-defense is pertinent in the face of the failure of the Federal Government and the security agencies led by an inactive retired major general and President, Muhammadu Buhari, to live up to its utmost constitutional responsibility of protection of lives and properties.
According to reports, more than 6,000 persons displaced due to attacks carried out by suspected terrorists in Kanam Local Government Area of Plateau State are currently taking refuge in markets and primary schools.
READ ALSO: Osinbajo’s declaration offers fresh insight for voters, says HURIWA
The suspected terrorists had invaded about seven communities in Kanam LGA on Sunday and shot at anyone they saw, which led to the killing of over 70 persons. Several persons were also abducted by the terrorists, who also set their houses ablaze.
HURIWA says the Plateau State governor has not demonstrated any appreciable level of concern to teach the mass killers the hard lessons of their lives by making it tough and difficult for armed non State actors that have become enthusiastic killers do not find Plateau State welcoming to mass murderers. There is just nothing on the ground in Plateau State to show that the state government is angry enough to stamp off the agents of genocidal killings of the native people of Plateau State who are majorly Christians.
Recall that killer herdsmen invaded several communities in three local government areas of Benue State on Monday night and killed 25 people, including a traditional ruler. HURIWA said the killings are well coordinated, clinically executed and sadly the killers are permitted to roam around on a killing spree.
READ ALSO: HURIWA slams Amaechi over presidential ambition
The armed herders were said to have invaded Tse-Sumaka village in the Mbadwem Council Ward of Guma Local Government Area, killing nine people and injuring one.
Ortom, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Nathaniel  Ikyur, had stated, “We are law-abiding citizens. We have cried for help against these invaders but nothing is forthcoming. We are left alone and it looks like it is a deliberate strategy. Now, we have only one option; to defend ourselves or be extinct. This is a case for our survival.”



Share this on WhatsApp