Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Barring any last minute change, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would Monday, formally declare his intention to run for the Office of the President in the 2023 general elections.
National Daily gathered that unlike others who either declared at a gathering or spoke to journalists, Osinbajo would release a seven or 10-minute recorded video to intimate the Nigerians home and abroad of his intention.
The declaration is coming about three months (89 days) after his godfather, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, made a similar declaration January 10, 2022 in a chat with journalists when he visited President Buhari in the Villa.
Sources close to the Office of the Vice President revealed that Osinbajo would make the declaration in a nationwide video broadcast.
READ ALSO: Group reveals why Osinbajo shouldn’t get APC presidential ticket
It was also gathered that Osinbajo’s tour of some parts of the country where he visited governors and traditional leaders, was a prelude to his formal declaration of his intention to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari.
And ahead of the declaration, Vice President Osinbajo reportedly met with the APC governors for Iftar (Muslim’s breaking of fast) last night at his official residence in the Villa.
According to our source, “the VP felt the need to inform the Governors ahead of a planned public declaration Monday of his decision to contest the presidency in 2023 on the APC platform.
“He is also discussing his plans with the governors and continuing the consultations with more governors and other critical stakeholders in the National Assembly and others. Being the Chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC) in the last seven years, he has an excellent relationship with governors across party, ethnic and religious borders.
Meanwhile, thousands of groups and individuals had, in recent times, urged the VP to run for the presidential election in 2023, saying, “Osinbajo is the most experienced and best prepared for presidential responsibilities.”
Leader of one of such groups, ‘Lawyers for Osinbajo,’ Abioye Akerele, in a statement said, having contributed significantly to the success of four great Nigerian personalities, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is the best candidate for the position of President.

Share this on WhatsApp