Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love



task appointees on need for synergy

The Orile Agege Local Development Council Area (LCDA) Executive Chairman Hon. Johnson Babatunde has counseled newly appointed Supervisory Councillors and Special Advisers not to be a clog in the wheel of progress of his administration.

The Council Chief gave the advice at the swearing-in ceremony held within the council on Saturday, after the appointees have been duly screened by the council’s legislature.

According to Babatunde, within the space of eight months prior to their appointment the council adminstration have really impacted the lives many positively through many developmental schemes of which they benefited immensely.

Babatunde said: “Before we constitute the executive arm of the government they could see that within a space of eight months we’ve impacted the people positively.

“My charge to them is that they should not be a clog in the wheel of progress in this local government, they should come to serve so that we can continuously deliver the dividend of democracy to the people.

“For example in a weeks time we are going to dole out about ten million naira to 100 men and women in this local government as an empowerment for them to start up a business or shore up their business capital.


“These are the kind of cabinet I want to have. I want them to know that serving the people is the number one goal of this administration.

“We are rendering selfless service and they must buy into our vision for this local government which is to renew,rebuild and restore the glory and our mission statement is to leave Orile Agege LCDA better than we met it.

“So they should strive hard in supporting the executive Chairman, the Vice Chairman and the people in order to better their lives. They should know that they are coming to serve, not to serve themselves.

Commenting on the criterion used to appoint the new cabinet members, Babatunde noted that “they cut across the strata of the political set up we have in Orile Agege not limited to one group or camp .They belong to different political blocks in our party.”

The list of the ten new appointees are: Hon James Agboola a former Executive Secretary of the council now appointed Secretary to the local government, followed by a list of seven supervisory councillors: Mr.Wasiu Sanni,Adedokun Adebisi (A.K.A Odeomu), Alaba Abatan, Mrs Bola Britto, Alhaji Rafiu Seriki who pleaded none availability because of ill health.

Three others were also sworn in as Special Adviser to the Chairman are: Mr David Akintayo, Surajudeen Ajala and Adewunmi Jelili.

 Suraju Ajala one of the new appointees who spoke with newsmen after the ceremony, said that the youths must take active part in politics so as to stall moves of non entities, who will then decide the fate of others.

“I use this opportunity to call on every youths all around Nigeria, politics is a game we need be involved in, if we are not involved a non entity will decide our fate for us, so across the strata, be it economy, political or social youths have to be involved.


Regarding his new assignment he promised unalloyed commitment. “We are just to compliment the Chairman’s efforts, I however pledge that whichever portfolio is attached to my new appointment the youths will be included being a youth myself.”

The Swearing-in programme which was sequel Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s directive, witnessed a large turn out of political loyalists of the newly appointed officers.






Share this on WhatsApp