Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAs killing of civilians by non-state actors in the southeast east escalates, IPOB, the separatist group many usually hold responsible, has listed out names of members it claims are responsible.
The list comprises members of ESN, the militia wing of IPOB, Ebubeagu, the region’s security networks, and other individuals.
The group listed the Ebubeagu leaders who are allegedly behind the killings in Orlu senatorial zone of Imo State as: Chibuike Igwe, Paul Udenwa From Amaifeke Orlu, Okwudili Dim (aka) One Nigeria, the man called Sky from Umutanze Orlu and the man called 2men from Umuna in Orlu.
In a statement on Tuesday, the IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, urged members of the public who have information on the whereabouts of the listed persons to report to IPOB and ESN members for prompt action.
“They are also part of the killings, kidnappings and rapes going in that vicinity. These vampires are forcing the residents to buy them guns or give them money to continue with their barbaric activities,” he said in a statement on Tuesday.
“These are hoodlums recruited by the corrupt politicians and security agencies to demonise IPOB, and now they are out of their control. They carry out this evil act right from midnight to 3am daily.”
He listed other terrorising the region to include Cyril Amasiatu (aka) wasara, Iron Agbaradu from-Amagu, Chinedu Agbaradu-Amagu commander, Cheta odinkenma – Amagu, Uchenna Nwachukwu, Chibyke Gezek Amagu, Chukwudi Odimegwu as the fake ESN members in Oru East and Njaba LGAs of Imo State.
According to him, the impersonators of ESN members in Orsu Ihiteukwa are”Uru”, “Sky”, “No one”,  “Double lion” and “Commander”.
“These people mentioned above are behind the criminalities going-on in these communities including kidnapping, car snatching and rape,”Powerful said.
IPOB is hereby declaring them wanted, and anybody who can give useful information about them will get handsome reward.
Share this on WhatsApp