Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Former Minister of Aviation and the Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress APC, Chief Femi Fani-kayode, Popularly called FFK, has come out openly to criticize the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari on security matters.
It was reported that Fani-kayode criticised Buhari’s Government openly for the first time, after his defection from the main opposition Party, Peoples Democratic Party PDP to the Ruling All Progressives Congress APC.
Though, Fani-kayode was well known to be one of the Most President Muhammadu Buhari’s critics before he dumped the PDP for APC, apart from the Former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose.

However, Fani-Kayode’s open criticism on President President Muhammadu Buhari, over security matters, might be a Political Propaganda.
It was reported by Daily Post, that Fani-kayode made it Known to the Public, that he can’t keep quiet anymore, over the security of Lives and Properties of the People.
He stated further, that the Lives of the People should not be Politicised and he urged President Muhammadu to find lasting solution, to the Problem of insecurities in the country.
It should be recalled that Fani-kayode has been quiet all this while, over the security of Lives of the People. Why is it now that he is talking about the security of Lives again? Though, Fani-kayode defected to APC through the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello.
Meanwhile, Governor Yahaya Bello is nursing Presidential Ambition in 2023 but with the look of things, Governor Yahaya Bello may not be given the Presidential ticket in 2023 because the zoning system of the Party will not favour him.
The Point is that, the Leaders of the Party, who lured Fani-kayode into the Party, might have been sidelined and that might be the reason, he Started criticising the Government.
It should be recalled that Fani-kayode, has not been given any juicy Appointment, since he joined the All Progressives Congress APC.
Though, he was appointed as member of reconciliation committe of the Party in the just concluded National Convention of the Party but this Position given to him might not be enough.
This is just an opinion, anyone having contrary Opinions should criticise the write up constructively without insults. Kindly Like, Share and comment reasonably


Share this on WhatsApp