Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love



 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Convener of an interreligious group, known as Plateau State Interreligious Youth Initiative, Mr. John Abok has called on a philanthropist who showers empathy especially during crisis in the State, to contest the 2023 governorship election.
The philanthropist, Amb. Yohanna Margif, the group say has played a fatherly role to the needy by providing food, shelter and scholarship to a good number of Plateau citizens especially those who had lost their parents during the various crisis that engulfed the State.
Abok the convener of the Coalition flanked by other members of the group made the call at a press conference in Jos on Friday.
According to the Group: “As 2023 draw more closer, we call on Amb. Margif with a loud voice to contest for the position of governor to improve and extend the developmental stride and ensure youth participation in governance.
“We also call on him to contest because we believe in his ability to ensure that the state is peaceful and develop through dialogue, empowerment and all inclusive governmence by replicating what he has seen and experienced as a leader with a sterling leadership qualities highly knowledgeable on governance, and ardent believer in glober best practices, a peace builder, a unifier, a philanthropist and a lover of humanity”, they said.
The group drawn across the length and breath of the 17 local government areas of Plateau, said they are desperate in need of change, and are looking for peace. “The reason we are standing here is that we want to give our entire support to Margif come 2023, we want him to run as the governor of Plateau State”.
The coalition added that they had been deprived from the dividends of democracy and marginalized from the political and economic structure of the State.
They also said that lack of involvement of educated people in grassroots politics and the participation of the vast majority of young Nigerians in active politics had further created decayed and failure in the system.
“The Nigerian youths are the number one victim of a failed system of government, bad governance, corruption, wrong governmental policies in critical sectors, such as education, economic, mining and manufacturing.
“Plateau State will be indeed be well govern with Margif on the wheels as seen in his pragmatic and people centered philanthropist disposition”, the group said.







Share this on WhatsApp