Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The operatives of Ogun State Police Command has arrested nine members of a notorious kidnap syndicate terrorizing Abeokuta-Ayetoro road in recent time.
The men, as confirmed by the Command spokesperson, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi were arrested on Sunday 24th of April 2022 from their hideout at Abule Oba, off Ayetoro road, Abeokuta by men of the state Police Command, in collaboration with local hunters, So-Safe Corps, OPC, Vigilante and men of Amotekun Corps.
The suspects; Hammed Taiwo, Kehinde Jimoh, Umar Sanda, Sanda Aliu, Ali Morandu, Usman Abubakar, Usman Mohammed, Umaru Ahmadu and Umaru Momodu, Oyeyemi said were arrested, following a credible intelligence gathered by policemen at Sabo/Ilupeju Divisional headquarters, that Hammed Taiwo and Kehinde Jimoh who are errand okada riders to the kidnap syndicate were sighted somewhere in Rounder area of Abeokuta North Local Government.
“Upon the information, the DPO Sabo/Ilupeju division, SP Mustapha Opawoye, quickly moblised his men and moved to the area, where the duo of Hammed Taiwo and Kehinde Jimoh were apprehended.
READ ALSO: Ogun police warns factional Okada transport union against violence
“On interrogation, they confessed being part of the syndicate, but their own role is to run errands and watch the environment to prevent law enforcement agents from getting to them unaware.
“Their confession led to the discovery of the group’s hideout of group at Abule oba, off Ayetoro road, where they always met after collecting ransom from their victims.
“Having discovered the hideout, the DPO mobilized his men,so safe corps, OPC men, local hunters and men of Amotekun corps and subsequently stormed the place where all the nine members of the syndicate were arrested.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that, the suspects are the group terrorizing Abeokuta/Ayetoro road in recent time. Some of their victims have been able to identify them as their abductors”, Oyeyemi stated.
Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole, who expressed satisfaction about the intelligence based investigation carried out by his men which led to the arrest of the hoodlums has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to anti-kidnapping section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation.
Share this on WhatsApp