Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveChief Ralph Uwazuruike,  leader of Movement for the Actualisation of  Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), on Saturday, led some  South East youths in a solidarity march in Owerri, Imo, in support of the 2023  presidential bid of Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi.
Uwazuruike who also said he  did not believe in president of Igbo extraction, said the contest should be thrown open.
The MASSOB leader  stated this  when Bello, a  presidential aspirant on the platform of  the All  Progressives Congress(APC), visited him in Owerri, Imo.
The youth, who started the procession from the MASSOB leader’s house in Owerri, marched through the streets, carrying different placards, with inscriptions such as “Power to the Youths, Support Yahaya Bello”, “Youths Can Also Lead”, and “Yahaya Bello for the Youths”, among others.
They made it clear that the only solution to Nigeria’s political quagmire was for power to go to the youth.
According to them, in this regard, Bello is the right fit for the position of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls  that Bello picked the APC  Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the party’s national secretarial on Wednesday.
Uwazuruike, who advised Nigerians and party leaders to shun zoning, as  it had no place in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, said his group would support  Bello to become the next president of Nigeria because he had the leadership qualities to lead Nigeria effectively.
He noted that power should go to the best in the race, adding that the Kogi governor remained  the best for the job.
“All Nigerians should rally round the youthful governor. We are supporting Bello for this and no one else. That he has the capacity to solve the problem of insecurity and a host of others facing the nation is not in doubt.
“This is a crucial time in the history of the country. We must give youths a chance, especially one that has demonstrated uncommon capacity, in the person of Yahaya Bello,” he said.
Uwazuruike, who is also the founder of Biafran Independent Movement (BIM)  said f Nigeria’s sovereignty must be upheld,  the idea of Igbo president should be discarded.
He said,: “I don’t believe in the idea of zoning system or Igbo president  because zoning means sectionalism.
“If we want to talk about Nigeria, we must throw the presidential contest open but if you throw it open, it must be for the youths not elders, because the elders have failed us.”
Uwazuruike said his group  would support  Bello to become the next president of Nigerian because he was a youth with the leadership qualities to deliver the Nigeria project.
“The youth must be given power,  the elders have continued to be in power without great  result.
He urged  Nigerians to support Bello, describing zoning or Igbo presidency as a  project aimed at promoting sectionalism.
Speaking, Bello expressed gratitude over the reception given to him by no fewer than Five thousand members of  MASSOB/BIM who welcomed him in Imo.
Bello said he was prepared to deliver the  Nigerian project if given opportunity to serve as the next president of the country.
“I’m prepared to lead this country, I shall address insecurity, heath system as well as educational system.
“Nigerians must be very careful and be ready to make the best decision in choosing their next president,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp