Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
It’s not wrong to say most people don’t understand the essence of linking their SIM cards with the National Identification Number (NIN). Some will go ahead to say, after all, they can buy another phone or SIM card when their phone or SIM is lost. It’s valuable to know that SIM linked with NIN is always priceless as it can cause you a lack of peace if someone uses your identity to commit a criminal act.


Nigeria’s government program mandated under the ministry of communication and digital life regarding the need to link your SIM card with NIN has to do with the security control of this great country.
The majority of people, both those who have and those who have not completed their linkage, are unaware that not being careful enough after linking their NIN with their SIMs can get them into problems or perhaps land them in jail without their knowledge.
However, if your NIN is tied to your obligatory SIM card, you must be aware that it is important and of highest necessity to protect both your Sim card and your phone with zeal. Do more for your SIM cards linked to your NIN in the same way you do for your infants, BVN and ATM, and pin.
As a result, if your SIM card is linked to your NIN, you should be aware of the following 5 precautions.
1. It is recommended that you no longer assist people in registering their SIM cards. This is where the philosophical question of what do you know for certain? comes to play. It’s not so much a matter of trust as it is of safety. Helping a reckless or victimized brother may expose you to unknown dangers in the event of a crime. This is why Efosa Idehen, Director of the NCC’s Consumer Affairs Bureau, said: “Under no circumstances should a telecoms consumer enable another individual to register a SIM with another person’s NIN.”
2. You should also be cautious about who you give your phone to and how you give it to them to make calls, send texts, or place it anywhere. As it’s called a handset, your phone should always be with you because it’s exclusively for you.
3. Don’t let anyone else use your phone to log into a social media account. Alternatively, allow no one create anything with your phone. This is due to the fact that safety takes precedence over anything else, including help or affection.
4. Always keep in mind that your “Sim card,” like your ATM card, pin, and BVN number, is extremely important. Any OTP issued to you by your service provider must not be shared with anybody, even your family.
5. It’s also important you don’t tell anyone about your National Identity Card or number.
To top it off, Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, said on mobile application, ”Seven sim cards can be linked to one National Identity Number (NIN).”
However, because there are seven Sim card numbers linkable to your NIN, it is strongly recommended that you should not register another person’s number other than your own with your NIN. This is not because people are always mean, but because prevention is always better than cure.


Share this on WhatsApp