Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The high price of diesel has forced the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB) to increase the service charge for mock UTME candidates. JAMB, announcing an increase in the service charge for the 2022 mock Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), said that the service charge has been increased by N400.
JAMB directed that the candidates participating in the exercise should pay N1,000 service charge to their Computer-Based Test (CBT) centres, noting that the examination would be conducted freely at its centres.
The board noted that the mock examination was introduced to provide candidates the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the CBT environment.
JAMB in its weekly bulletin, highlighted: “The candidates who indicated their interest to take the examination are to pay the N1000 at their respective centres for the use of the private facilities deployed for the examination.
“However, candidates assigned to JAMB owned centres would not be required to pay for the use of the centres.
“Much as the Board would like to keep the cost at a minimum, the prevailing high cost of diesel and other consumables has necessitated the increase from N600 to N1,000 to enable the CBT centres to provide the needed infrastructure, as partners of the Board, to host the examination, which is scheduled to hold on Saturday, 9th April 2022.
“The Board has thought through this increase and resolved that instead of cancelling the mock-UTME, which introduction has improved candidates’ confidence in sitting the examination owing to the high cost of diesel, it is better to increase the service charge to make the exercise worthwhile to participating centres.”
JAMB told candidates who registered for the 2022 UTME exercise and indicated interest to sit for the Mock-UTME to proceed to print their mock examination notification slip.
The slip, the board said, shows  the centre the candidates have been assigned for the examination.
According to the board: “The slip can be printed anywhere at the candidates’ convenience by visiting https://www.jamb.gov.ng.
“The notification slip contains the venue (centre) the candidates would sit for the examination, the time and date of the examination and other necessary instructions.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp