Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Abdulwahid Islamic Foundation, a faith based group passionate about evolving a functional society void of societal ills has highlighted the need for concerted efforts to stem the ugly trend bedevilling the nation as its set to host 12th Annual Ramadan Lecture & Special Prayers for the Nation on April 17th.


The theme “Societal ills and Corruption: The Islamic Solution”, was carefully chosen to create awareness on societal concerns, like social vices and recommend applicable solutions to either eradicate or minimize its ever rising spate within the society.

The annual Ramadan programme will be preceded by a Free Medical service on Saturday, April 16, 2022 at Ikosi- Isheri LCDA Secretariat, Ikosi- Road, Ketu, Lagos by 10am.

The medical programme and other activities are supported by Drugfield Pharmaceuticals Ltd and Hon. Dayo Bush, the Former House of Representative Member, Kosofe Federal Constituency.

The Annual Ramadan lecture will be held on Sunday April 17, 2022 with the Hon. Yacoob Ekundayo Bush-Alebiosu , A former House of Representative Member and the Otunba Fuwagbuyi of Ijebu Land as the Chairman of the day.

The Guest Speaker at the Ramadan lecture scheduled to hold on 17th of April at Tamroyal Multi-purpose Hall, Ajibola Crescent, Alapere-Ketu, Lagos state, is As-Shaykh, Dr. Ridwan Olagunju , a lecturer with the University of Ilorin.
Other notable speakers like Brig. General Buba Marwa, Chairman of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and Mr. Waheed Ishola, Director, National Orientation Agency, Lagos State will be on hand to expose participants to the thrust of the thematic concern of the day.

 To be followed by a Special Prayer session  for the Nation.
The Statement enjoined all Muslim faithful to seize the opportunity of the 30-day Ramadan period to offer prayers to the Almighty God for complete restoration of the Nation and encouraged Muslims in the State to be considerate of the needy around them by sharing out of the abundance given to them by the Almighty Allah.

He added that the Ramadan lecture will feature discussions of germane topics by seasoned Islamic scholars deemed helpful in the areas of prayers and other spiritual issues throughout the period of the fast.

Dignitaries expected at the event  includes: Barrister Sharaphardeen Idowu , Managing Partner, Braintree Solicitors, Mayor Dele Oshinowo, the Executive Chairman Agboyi-Ketu LCDA, Hon. Saheed Babafemi, Honorable Member Kosofe Constituency 2 and Hon. Ganiyu Okanlawon, representing  Kosofe Constituency 1 at the Lagos House of Assembly.

Others are Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada, the Executive Chairman, Ikosi-Isher LCDA, Alhaji Nurudeen Abimbola, Alhaji Tajudeen Taiwo,  MD, Totalum Nigeria Ltd, Hon. Abiodun Ogungbo,  Sheikh AbdulRafi’I Babatunde Awwal and other Muslim clerics.
Share this on WhatsApp