Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Strong indications have emerged that the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu may likely run for re-election in the 2023 gubernatorial poll with the incumbent Secretary to the State Government, Folashade Jaji as mate.
This followed revelation that the incumbent deputy governor, Dr. Obafemi Kadiri may likely to vie for senatorial seat on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC.
The choice of Jaji as the Deputy Governor is being considered to balance the gender equation as well as attract the full support of womenfolk which forms the bulk of the voters and give them a sense of belonging.
Jaji, who is politically savvy as well, was a former Head of Service, HoS in the state.
READ ALSO: Sanwo-Olu gives 3 days ultimatum to Apongbon Bridge traders to leave
Hamzat had always been rumoured to have the plan of relocating to Epe after the first tenure with Sanwo-Olu where he initially intended to run for the office of Governor before reshaping it to senatorial after power bloc advice.
In the wake, he was advised to relocate to Ifako/Ijaiye and contest the Lagos West Senatorial district which is vacant because of the incumbent, Senator Solomon Olamilekan, popularly called, Yayi, relocating to Ogun West.
Interestingly, quite a number of aspirants have started emerging for the West Senatorial District to replace Yayi. Notable among them is former Minister of Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, whose colourful posters could be seen at various corners of the district. Others are; Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goal, SDG, Mrs. Joke Orelope-Adefulire, and Dr. Idiat Adebule, both former deputy governors and former Commissioner for Transportation, Comrade Kayode Opeifa and still counting.
READ ALSO: Adamu clarifies APC stand on presidential ticket zoning
Though, Sanwo-Olu had earlier directed all government aides and party officers who are nursing political ambitions to resign for proper preparation towards achieving necessary victory at polls.
The developments have no doubt heated up the polity in the state over who gets what and who will lose out. There has been a series of clandestine moves to out stage and outsmart one another in the fight for Tinubu’s support who in turn is preoccupied with the race for presidency.


Share this on WhatsApp