Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveOsun 2022: My confidence is in God, electorate, says Oyetola.
 
Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun says he has absolute trust in God and the good people of the state to win the July 16 governorship election in the state.
Oyetola said this during a meeting with the members of the Plant Caterpillar Operators Association of Nigeria, Osun Chapter, organised by the State’s Civic Engagement Office in Osogbo on Thursday.
The governor, represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, said that his faith in God regarding his reelection remained unwavering, noting that “it is God that gives power.”
Oyetola noted that he was not worried about the campaign of calumny by the opposition parties ahead of the election, and said that he would not allow that to derail him from fulfilling his promises to the citizens.
The governor said that with God on his side, and the masses; he had been putting smiles on their faces through a series of developmental programmes and policies, his reelection is not negotiable.
Oyetola noted that despite the paucity of funds, the state was still attending to its financial obligations, especially, on the issue of salaries, pensions, improved security, and other social amenities.
“This will not fail even after my re-election, because that is the covenant I made with God and the masses.
“My faith in God and the good people of Osun in respect of my re-election is unshaken.
“I have kept the promises I made with the good people of the state as well as the covenant I made with God to uphold my oath of office.
“Victory for me and my party, the All Progressives Congress, is sure because it is God that gives power and his appointment is not negotiable”, he said.
The governor, who commended the people of the state for their support and prayers for his administration, said he would never stop doing what would put smiles on their faces.
Oyetola, however, urged them  to protect their permanent voter cards and use the same to support him during the forthcoming governorship election.
“You can testify with what we have done and still doing in the area of infrastructure, health, education, youth empowerment, agriculture, prompt payment of salaries and pensions, among others.
“We will continue doing this and many more by the time we come back with your support”, the governor said.
In his remarks, the chairman of the association, Mr Jimoh Taofeek, commended the governor for embarking on programmes and policies that were of benefits to the masses.
Taofeek, who noted that the governor had touched every sector in the state despite the paucity of funds, said members of the association would support his reelection.
Share this on WhatsApp