Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 

For the first time in years, the Champions League draw seems to offer a balanced quarterfinal with the potential for fireworks. Liverpool and Bayern Munich came from the group stage as the top two teams after going undefeated and they ended up with the easiest draw in the next round. However, they might end up facing each other in what’s expected to be a mouthwatering semifinal.
Liverpool won their first quarterfinal match against Benfica on 5th April, while Manchester City beat Atletico Madrid. Meanwhile, Chelsea lost a difficult matchup against Real Madrid on 6th April and now they’re at the risk of missing the semi-finals. This article predicts the top 5 teams in the quarterfinals that have a strong chance to reach the semi-finals and possibly lift the trophy on 28th May.
Liverpool
Liverpool and Bayern Munich seem to be destined for a mouthwatering semi-final after the Reds crushed Benfica as the German side is set to face Villareal. The English side has won 17 out of their last 18 matches in all competitions, with their only loss coming against Inter Milan in the second leg of the round of 16.
Liverpool has recorded 10 clean sheets in the last 13 games and they are pushing Manchester City for the EPL title. Given their form and depth, you can bet on the team to reach the finals and possibly lift the trophy. Fortunately, Betway is offering great UCL odds on the team.
Bayern Munich
Bayern Munich is another great team that punters at Betway can bet on to reach the semi-finals. However, Villareal seems to be slightly tougher than Benfica, after beating the German side 1-0 in their first quarterfinals match. Nonetheless, Bayern is motivated to make a comeback in the second quarterfinal match.
Manchester City
On paper, Manchester City seems like the most complete team in the competition. However, Pep Guardiola is known to crumple up his form in big games, despite claiming their first quarterfinal victory against Atletico Madrid. Still, Manchester City seems ready for the semi-finals where they might face Chelsea or Real Madrid.
Chelsea
The reigning European champion is a team to be revered in the Champions League, but its road to lifting the trophy seems to be the toughest. The Blues lost 1-3 to Real Madrid in the first quarterfinal game and might have a hard time eliminating the La Liga side for a spot in the semi-final. Fortunately, Chelsea has displayed an impeccable Champions League performance under Thomas Tuchel, recording 10 clean sheets in 15 games.
Real Madrid
Real Madrid made the most noise during the round of 16 after recording an amazing comeback from a 2-0 deficit against PSG in the last 30 minutes. Karim Benzema’s 17-minute hat trick proved there’s no safe lead against Real Madrid and no team can expect an easy game when they’re facing UCL elimination. Real Madrid are now a step closer to eliminating Chelsea and possibly face Manchester City in the semi-finals.

Share this on WhatsApp