Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGovernor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, at a rally of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at Ughelli 1Township Stadium to receive a former PDP member, Chief Jaro Egbo, and his group back from the All Progressives Congress (APC) declared that PDP is working hard to rescue Nigeria and Nigerians from the hardship being meted on citizens by the APC- Federal Government.
Okowa commended Delta youths for maintaining peace in the state, noting that women and youths were so important in the politics of Delta State.
The commended PDP governorship and other aspirants for their sense of responsibility in their consultations, saying that the PDP remained one big family.
“Let me thank our brother, Olorogun Jaro Egbo, and his ‘High Voltage’ movement for deeming it fit to return home.
“PDP is well able to take over presidency but we have to be very strong and courageous
“Nigerians have suffered enough and they are tired; so, we must give them hope that there will be light at the end of the tunnel.
“We have always won in Ughelli North but they usually write results in one ward and we will not allow anybody to write results again.
“Every man with his vote must count and and I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that in 2023, we will win in all parts of Delta Central,” Okowa stated.
PDP State Chairman, Chief Kingsley Esiso, commended the returnees for coming back home to join the mission to rescue Nigeria from the grip of the APC.
according to the State Chairman: “Nigerians are tired of what is happening today in the country as the APC government has turned the country into poverty capital and a state of terror.
“We must chase APC out of Nigeria, we intend to chase them out of Ask Rock and Delta State will lead the charge.”
Chairman , PDP Ughelli North, Kesiena Nomuoja, said the Okowa administration has done a lot to develop the local government, expressing high expectation that PDP will triumph across board in the 2023 general elections.
Chief Jaro Egbo, thanked Governor Okowa and the PDP leaders in Delta State for welcoming them back.
Egbo had declared: “I have come with the good message that PDP remains the hope for all Nigerians.
“In 2015, the APC made a lot of promises to Nigerians which they didn’t fulfill instead they plunged Nigerians into further economic and security crises.
“Now that we are back home, the PDP will start winning for 2023 here in Ughelli North.”
PDP governorship aspirants at the rally included Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro, Senator James Manager, Speaker Sheriff Oborevwori, Dr. Peter Mrakpor SAN, Chief Fred Majemite and Chief Bright Edejeghwro.
Share this on WhatsApp