Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Erik ten Hag has emerged as the stand-out candidate to succeed interim boss Ralf Rangnick at Old Trafford after the Ajax coach was believed to have impressed United’s boards in interviews thus creating hope of his confirmation by the club’s hierarchy before the end of the month.
But it has been recently reported that Ten Hag had made several demands over the job, wanting full control and a final say over all player and staff decisions, including transfers.
Meanwhile, the reports just reaching National Daily from The Telegraph claim that is not the case at all and Ten Hag is in fact ‘irritated’ by the suggestions.
Contrary to the reports, the Dutchman’s preference is to work under a sporting director – who takes control of player transfers – and has worked under such a person throughout his entire management career.
It is understood that Ten Hag wants to focus on coaching the team and is happy to come into United’s existing structure, while he has made no demands to take over control of transfers and squad building.
He has, however, made it clear to United’s board that he wants to be involved in the process of both signing and selling players and would hope to have a significant say in incomings and outgoings.
United have said they are happy to grant his request and, moreover, would expect the new manager to give his opinion on signings and departures anyway – particularly with the squad requiring a major rebuild.
The Red Devils look likely to miss out on Champions League football and have a number of players who are out of contract this summer, or who are ageing, and there is expected to be a massive turnover in the summer.
Ten Hag ideally wants a lower age profile within his squad who can play his energetic, up-tempo football – which again fits with what United’s recruitment team have already been looking for.
Suggestions that Ten Hag has made demands over his coaching team – requesting his entire Ajax staff to come with him – are also thought to be wide of the mark, while he agrees with United’s suggestion to bring in a coach with experience of the Premier League and ties to the club.
 
Share this on WhatsApp