Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love













If Russia declared war on the United Kingdom, it would automatically put Article 5 of NATO into action and every single NATO Nation would be at war with Russia. The United Kingdom can’t win a war against Russia on its own, but that’s alright, because the United States Military would be deploying in large numbers to Europe getting ready to invade Russia.
We have seen in Ukraine that the Russian Army wasn’t all that it was cracked up to be, with the Department Of Defense even admitting that they thought the Russians would be doing much better than they currently are. The Russian Army is running out of fuel on roads that lead to nowhere, and they even have Infantrymen defending and setting up posts at buildings and sections that they weren’t even supposed to. They’re struggling to feed their own forces in some sections of Ukraine, an entire Russian platoon even surrendering to Ukraine in exchange for food and water. They’ve been losing thousands of soldiers and several convoys as well as a high ranking General to Ukrainian Soldiers and Rebels.
We have seen some of the best Russian Tanks being fielded being blown to pieces by Javelin Missiles, widely used by the U.S. Military. We have seen Ukrainian Drones taking out many Russian positions on the ground, their air defenses failing to shoot down many aircraft and many of them even being destroyed on the ground before they can even get set up properly.
Vladimir Putin realizes how poorly the Russians are doing on the battlefield, and he has threatened nuclear war with the United States and NATO if they so much as step foot into Ukraine and start shooting at the Russian Army.





The U.S. Army & Marine Corps would make short work of the Russian Army on a European Front. The U.S. Military is too technologically advanced, too well trained, too well funded, too logistically compensated, and too well combat experienced to lose to the Russian Military. The Pentagon expected Russian AA to be much more formidable than it is right now, with Ukraine destroying their AA Sites with ease with their own air assets. If a weakened Ukraine is doing this much damage to the Russians, can you imagine what it would be like with the U.S. Army & Marine Corps in combat with the Russians while being backed by the full might of the U.S. Air Force and Navy in the Black Sea?
If Russia wanted to conventionally fight the United States, they would desperately lose, and Vladimir Putin knows this, which is why he threatened to nuke his own country along with every NATO Nation if he saw a single M1 Abrams Tank roll across the Russian border.
Operation Desert Storm was a wild wakeup call to Russia, and they still are clearly not prepared for something like that to happen to them with modern technology.



Share this on WhatsApp