Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Former Sen. Dino Melaye has described his party man and ex-governor, Ayo Fayose, as a ‘presidential gambler’ working for his APC godfather.
Melaye was reacting to the comments Fayose made against former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and ex-Senate President, Bukola Saraki, over the collection of the presidential nomination forms.
The two aspirants claimed youth supports groups bought their nomination forms for N40m each.
Former Presiden Olusegun Obasanjo was the first to warn Nigerians against voting for such “liars” who claimed youths pooled up millions for their nomination forms.
Melaye in a statement titled, ‘The Presidency is not Ponmo and Amala’, on Friday, said Fayose must have been pleasantly sated on Amala and ponmo he ate in a canteen where he made the comment against the PDP aspirants.
“Incidentally, the mauling of Amala gained more publicity over the collection of the presidential nomination form, in a pretentious exhibition of dining with the masses. This frugal populism has since been deflated by allegations of charges for the ferreting of billions of Naira from public coffers in Ekiti State. Is Amala and Abula so expensive?
“The issue before Nigerians now is not who can eat more, but who can produce food. That is why the attempt to tar the outstanding achievements of Atiku Abubakar as former Vice President and Bukola Saraki as former Senate President by Fayose would be discounted as the belching perfidy of a presidential gambler.
“It is clear from the verbal missiles deployed by Fayose that he was simply de-marketing frontline aspirants in PDP as a counter-intuitive strategy to shore up the chances of his political godfather in APC.
“It is amazing that Fayose who could not manage and retain a PDP state now aspires to lead a behemoth structure like Nigeria. Today, Ekiti is stripped of all vestiges of PDP; no PDP Senator, no PDP House of Representatives member, no House of Assembly member, no Local Government Chairman, and not even a Councillor. He left Ekiti State worse than he met it. How could he fail in the state and expect promotion to the national?
“The contest for the ticket of PDP and the Presidency of Nigeria is a serious engagement. Those who aspire to the position must elevate themselves above pedestrian conduct and address real issues, rather than dwelling on inconsequential inanities.
“The national leadership of our great party should call Fayose to order, by curtailing his unproductive verbiage against serious contenders. Having failed to upgrade from local political space to the national stage, Fayose may indeed be assisted to undertake a week-long orientation session on the ethics and codes of peer relations on a presidential canvass.
“Nigeria is in dire straits at the moment. It is beyond the call of jesters in the corridors of elevated governance.”
Share this on WhatsApp