Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) are leading 20 other countries, making it a total of 22 countries across the world to have cancelled mask mandates from the beginning of 2022.
Meanwhile debates over masks returned to the United States after a judge nullified a federal mask mandate for interstate travel. This enlisted the U.S. among several other countries in the world that have scraped broad mask and pandemic measures since January 2022.
Latin America, Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile, and the Dominican Republic have all scraped governments regulation on mask requirements.
Mexico also cancelled the compulsory use of masks in public places in most states.
The Dominican Republic, a Caribbean tourist destination, scraped its mask mandates in February 2022 after the government ended its COVID-19 state of emergency in October 2021.
Dominican Republic President Luis Abinader had declared, “It’s time to recover all our freedoms and way of life.”
Paraguay, Brazil, Italy, and South Africa in April 2022, announced the end of national health emergencies, bringing the pandemic to an end and lifting all restrictions.
Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi promising a gradual return to normal, said that face coverings will no longer be compulsory outdoors, but are still required indoors until April 30.
Draghi in February at Florence, Italy had said, “Our goal is to reopen fully, as soon as possible.”
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the U.K.  had declared the cancellation of mask mandates in public places on January 19, referring to information from government researchers that the worst of the Omicron variant cases had already peaked. Therefore, mask are no longer legally required on public transportation in England.
Scotland halted masks wearing and the legal requirement for most indoor locations and public transportation on April 18.
The Netherlands, France, Spain, including Poland, Latvia, Croatia, and the Czech Republic, have also relaxed compulsory mask wearing in public places.
A federal judge had suspended the enforcement of compulsory mask in the U.S. on April 18 to nullify President Joe Biden’s mask mandate.
U.S. District Judge Kathryn Kimball Mizelle in a judgement held that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which initially issued the mandate, had exceeded its authority, and failed to seek public comment before issuing the mandate.
Citizens are getting their freedom back.
Share this on WhatsApp