Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveLagos APC chieftains task supporters on 2023 elections.
 
Some chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos on Thursday urged members to vote massively for the party during the 2023 general elections.
They gave the charge during a General Assembly of the party held at Ojo Federal Constituency, at Ijanikin, Lagos.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the event was themed, ” Ojo APC Setting A Better Agenda”.
Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, Lagos State APC Chairman, urged the members to stay committed and replay the slogan of Ojo majority like they had been doing in elections in the state.
He said, “Let us arise and replay the slogan of Ojo majority.
“It is what you put into the business that you are going to reap at the of the day, and collectively what we want to use is our votes to attract infrastructural development to Ojo federal constituency.
“Remember, we worked with former Gov. Raji Fashola during his tenure and he approved the rehabilitation of Lagos-Badagry expressway.
“We know this wasn’t the responsibility of Lagos State but because of his passion and love to make sure people don’t suffer, Fashola diverted the resources of Lagos State to fund the project of the federal government.
“We should not sell our birthright because of peanut, let us vote and vote wisely .
“We are yearning for development, it is our votes that we will use to make sure that we get the development that we are looking for, may God help us.
“You have seen the monumental development that Lagos-Badagry expressway has witnessed now, go to Iyana-Era and see what is going on there.
“I can also assure you that work will soon start in a matter of weeks, from Okokomaiko to Agbabiaka.”
The chairman urged the members to support their council chairmen solidly to enable them to represent them well and attract development to Ojo Federal Constituency.
According to Ojelabi, It is the quantum of votes which the supporters are able to deliver for APC that would make them attract these sort of development.
“It is not enough to vote for them, we need to support them , we need to show love and determination as far as our party is concerned.
“We can only get there when we are united,” he said.
Also speaking, Sen. Musiliu Obanikoro, a former Minister of State for Defence, and APC chieftain, urged members in Ojo to go back to the days when the constituency used to have majority votes.
According to Obanikoro, politics is a serious business.
“There is a lot of work to be done ,where you stand depends on what you will see.
” Ojo, and particularly Lagos, should be a rainbow coalition. Efforts must be geared to bring all tribes on board.
“We cannot do this alone without embracing our brothers and sisters from the North, South- South and South-East, that’s the job we have to now , if we get that done , victory is assured, may God help us,” he said.
Dr Oluranti Adebule, former Deputy Governor of Lagos, and APC chieftain in Ojo Federal Constituency assured that Ojo would be repositioned for greatness, success and effectiveness.
Adebule said that in order to achieve success in the next general election, they could not continue to do things the old way.
“This Ojo Assembly is to tell all that are seated here that we are all important persons in the progress of Ojo.
We need to contribute our vote.
“We have seen all the good work that Ojelabi has been doing in Ojo, it is time to reward him for the job well done, one vote, it’s for Ojelabi and all the leaders seated here.
“The essence of this gathering is to bring ourselves to consciousness, to say Ojo must arise, Ojo must rise up again, Ojo must be repositioned for success, goodness and effectiveness.
“One person cannot do it, we just have to do it together, we must not forget our promise,” she said.
NAN reports that APC chieftains in Ojo Federal Constituency, members of the party, market men and women, among others graced the event.
Share this on WhatsApp