Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


One of the sons of late gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, has revealed some of the torturous experience of his mother in her husband’s hands, even noting that at her time, the father pushed her mother out of a moving car at night.
During a meeting with Eneh Ogbe, the boy also revealed that his father assaulted his mother on a daily basis and even told him that beating women is a good thing.
Eneh, who couldn’t keep the information to herself, shared her conversation with the late Osinachi Nwachukwu boy on her social media account.
The conversation reads as follows: By God’s grace I was in our beloved late sister’s house this evening again and am glad that he was actually arrested by the police… But what baffles me is the way and manner he has polluted the children’s minds. I had a chat with the first born and I almost started crying again.
READ ALSO: Olori Naomi admonishes women in abusive relationships, mourns gospel singer Osinachi
“This boy told me the ordeal his mom has been going through with his dad, how he beats her up in any little argument.
He said aunty, my dad pushed my mom out of the car at night after Wednesday service and bad boys snatched my mom bag that night. How mom got home that night I can’t tell because dad left her.
“people dashed my mom this two cars (pointed at them for me to see) but dad at times will say my mom should take bike while we go in the car, even when we are coming back from church my mom will stand under the sun and we will drive and pass her and we will wave at her, my dad told us that beating women is good..
“I had to cut in on the conversation and I told him it is very wrong to beat a woman and that God is against it and I really talk sense into him. He said they are happy that their dad was arrested because they should beat them up too.
“The second born sang for us too. He has a golden voice like his mom… The first said my mom always keeps quiet for my daddy and she always forgives and now she has died and I told him not to worry as his mom is in heaven!!!

Share this on WhatsApp