Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAgency donates 31 emergency sim cards to Kaduna LGAs.
 
The Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (KADSEMA), on Wednesday donated 31 Subscriber Identity Module Card (Sim Cards) to all the 23 Local Government Areas in the state for disaster management.
The Executive Secretary of the agency, Mr Muhammed Mukaddas,made the donation during a Disaster Management Platform review meeting in Kaduna.
He said use of the sim cards would facilitate regular and prompt communication amongst stakeholders during times of emergency in local communities.
According to the News Agency of Nigeria, the meeting was in collaboration with Christian Aid and Cooperazione Internazionale (COOPI).
Mukaddas explained that the donation was sequel to inauguration of Local Management Committees in the 23 LGAs in the state, and also in line with KADSEMA’s mandate as coordinating Agency on disaster matters.
He said that the sim cards would allow seamless flow of information and communication, as well as enhancing effective and efficient mitigation, preparedness and response action in times of emergency
“In our efforts of ensuring proactiveness and prompt attention in emergency, we provide the 31 Closed User Group post paid numbers for use by state humanitarian actors.
“Twenty three of them have been allocated to our Local Emergency Management Committees in the 23 Local Government Areas in the State,” Mukaddas said.
He urged the LGA Chairmen to hand over the sim cards to the Local Emergency Management Committees Focal Persons for judicious use.
Receiving the sim cards on behalf of the 23 LGA chairmen, Chairman of the Association of Local Government Organisation (ALGON), Mr Abubakar Buba, thanked KADSEMA for the gesture.
He pledged to distribute the sim cards appropriately and ensure their judicious use across the LGAs.
“Emergency is everybody’s business and we promise to make maximum use of this sim cards for the safety of the people, especially at the grassroots.
NAN also reports that a comprehensive list of emergency dedicated lines of KADSEMA and the 23 LGAs were saved in the sim cards.
Share this on WhatsApp