Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFirm donates ICT centre to NYSC Secretariat in Lagos.
 
The Director-General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has commended Sidmach Technologies, an Information Technology firm for the donation of an ICT Centre to the Lagos State Secretariat of the scheme.
Ibrahim, during the inauguration of the Centre, said that the collaboration with NYSC and Sidmach had continued to witness transformation and innovation in the use of ICT.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Ibrahim was represented by Mrs Chris Ubah, Director, ICT and Information of NYSC.
“I want to express our gratitude to Sidmach Technologies for yet another uncommon gesture being a standing partner with NYSC, it is a further commitment to the unwavering effort to cement a lasting bond between the two organisations.
“NYSC ICT department has been anchoring the deployment of ICT solutions to drive the operations of the scheme for greater efficiency as obtained in best practices worldwide.
“The migration of analogue to an online integrated system is one of the best things that has happened to the scheme, I, therefore, thank the management of Sidmach for being a strong partner in this regard,” he said.
Ibrahim noted that the collaboration between NYSC and Sidmach had attracted endorsement of relevant bodies.
He said the scheme was conferred with best MDA in innovation application of ICT solutions at the 2016 e-Governance Award ceremony organised NITDA/Nihilent.
He pledged that the scheme would continue to invest in human capital, overhaul its institution and seek to improve procedure and system in order to achieve set goals in efficient manner.
“As a response to dynamism, I want to reaffirm our continued collaboration with Sidmach in making our ICT solutions and interventions more meaningful.
“We will continue to encourage our staff and corp members to make best use of this important facility for self and community development, especially now that the world is evolving round ICT,” he added.
According to him, the NYSC has commenced transmission of its first ever television station, NYSC TV on TSTV digital satellite broadcast channel 365 and the Radio station broadcasting on 88.3 FM.
“We are anxiously waiting for the passage of the NYSC Trust Fund bill into law, with the endorsement, the scheme will record unprecedented revolution that will greatly equip all the structure.
“It will provide means for NYSC to empower corp members in skills acquisitions and further place the scheme in its rightful place as the leading light of all youth organisation in Africa,” he said.
The director-general, however, commended the dynamism of the Directorate (Press and Public Relations), NYSC Directorate Headquarters, Abuja and the outgoing state Coordinator, NYSC Secretariat, Lagos, Mr Eddy Megwa for the initiative.
He applauded Megwa for conceptualising the idea in collaboration with Sidmach Technologies.
“I want to say that it is a good step in the right direction,” he said.
Earlier, Megwa in his remarks, expressed appreciation to Sidmach for making the dream of the ICT Centre come true.
“That we have and can boast of an ICT Centre courtesy of Sidmach is a thing of joy and great achievement, my heart knows no bounds by way of happiness.
“We cannot thank Sidmach enough for complete renovation of the centre and for stuffing it with state of the art equipment and other forms of assistance,” he said.
Megwa, however, assured that members of staff would make best use of the equipment and appealed to Sidmach to intermittently send its professionals to visit the centre.
“We will appreciate your visits, particularly to assess the state and use of the equipment and possibly bring some programmes that can help to deliver the service mandate to stakeholders.
Meanwhile, Mr Chijioke Eke, the Managing Director of Sidmach Technologies in his remarks, said the gesture was an opportunity of giving back to the scheme that he passed through.
“We have come a long way with NYSC because we are also as well as 90 percent of people here beneficiaries of the scheme, so, we are passionate and committed to NYSC and our nation,” Eke said.
While urging the NYSC Lagos management to safeguard and maintain the equipment and also ensure that the centre was kept neat, he pledged continuous commitment and partnership with the scheme.
NAN also reports that the event doubled the inauguration of the NYSC Lagos Ultra-Modern Conference Room.
Share this on WhatsApp