Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveOlowu Stool: Kingmakers screen 7 princes to select new Oba.
 
Kingmakers of the Owu kingdom have concluded screening of seven princes jostling for the Olowu of Owu stool in Abeokuta- North Local Government Area of Ogun State.
Sources close to the palace told the News Agency of Nigeria that the statutory selection process by the six kingmakers took place last Wednesday and lasted for about seven hours.
NAN gathered that the Otileta Ruling House, whose turn it is to produce the next Olowu of Owu, screened 12 princes who were nominated by the five compounds that made up the ruling house.
Seven of the 12 princes were cleared and nominated for final screening by the kingmakers.
The seven candidates nominated include Dr Adegbemi Adewale, an Archbishop of Methodist Church, Princes Adelani Oladimeji, Matemilola Adelola and Olatidoye Olaniyi.
Others are Princes Adeyanju Bakinson, Simeon Soyele and Adesina Adelani.
The source said that former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is the Balogun (Chief warrior) of Owu kingdom, had addressed the seven candidates during the screening witnessed by Secretary of Abeokuta – North Local Government and other council officials.
The source explained that the screening process was “thorough, transparent and neat because every candidate was engaged by the kingmakers.”
It added that no voting took place during the exercise but the kingmakers had already forwarded their report to Gov. Dapo Abiodun.
The source added that the kingmakers had explained that the final outcome of the exercise would be made public by Gov. Abiodun whose statutory duty it is to announce the new Oba.
Hundreds of the sons and daughters of the kingdom had thronged the Oke Ago-Owu Palace in Abeokuta where the kingmakers interviewed the candidates, hoping to receive an announcement of the Olowu-elect.
The Olowu stool became vacant following the demise of the late Oba Adegboyega Dosumu, who joined his ancestors on Dec. 12, 2021.
Share this on WhatsApp