Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
A 2- year-old lady, Toyosi Adesegun, will be prosecuted in court by the Lagos State Police Command for giving false information and deceiving the public after she raised a false rape and kidnap alarm on Thursday morning.
Toyosi, who had earlier tweeted that she was kidnapped and raped at Akoka, Lagos, later deleted her tweet and making fresh tweet that she was neither kidnapped nor raped. But she had attracted public curiosity before then.
Toyosi had in a tweet posted at 7.15am written: “I’m being kidnapped guys. I’m being raped. Number 78 Obayan Street Pako Akoka. Lagos.”
She was said to have also posted the mobile telephone number of the person that allegedly kidnapped her.
The public urgently alerted the police with the details. The police stormed the location with urgency for interventions to save her life.
By the time she deleted the post and later tweeted that it was false, saying that she weas fine, it was too late.
Toyosi in her later tweet, stated: “I tweeted earlier that I was kidnapped and raped. It’s false. I am so sorry for this. Please stop calling and threatening the numbers.”
The lady proceeded to provide more explanation in a video, saying: “I am fine. I was not kidnapped or raped. I am fine and I am not making this video under duress or anything. I am very okay; I am in my house. Please stop calling or threatening those numbers. Thank you very much.”
However, she had to report herself to the Bariga Division of Lagos State Police Command for thorough investigation.
The Police Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Command, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, on Thursday evening highlighted: “After a careful and extensive investigation, it is revealed that 20-year-old Toyosi Adesegun, female, is a regular visitor to Olamilekan Faruk, Ayanfe Ayinde and Olusola Onipede, all male of 78 Obayan Street Akoka.
“This morning, she was restrained from leaving the apartment by the young men.
“Toyosi threatened to tweet what she tweeted if she was not allowed to leave. The young men called her bluff and she tweeted.
“Based on the foregoing, the three men will be arraigned for wrongful restraint while Toyosi will be arraigned for giving false information.”
Share this on WhatsApp