Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, says winning the 2023 general election is crucial to the survival of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Wike, also a presidential aspirant under the party made this assertion while wooing Anambra State PDP leaders and delegates to support his presidential ambition in Awka, the capital of Anambra State on Saturday.
He told the delegates that as a mark of honour he had to personally visit Awka to formally notify them of his ambition to become the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“I didn’t send anybody to you, because I have respect for you. We have been in opposition since 2015 and if we don’t win this election in 2023, we can as well forget PDP. And so, everything must be done to win this election. No sentiment should be brought in and of all the aspirants, whether the person is from Anambra, Sokoto, Imo, look at all of us, who can withstand APC in this election? It is me.”
READ ALSO: Gov. Wike reacts to what Gov. Ganduje said about him being a good loser in 2023 election (Video)
The governor reiterated that prior to the 2015 general election, some of the present presidential aspirants defected to the APC and PDP lost the presidency. He said it is ironic that after the PDP has been rebuilt and made formidable, those who abandoned it are back and jostling for the party’s ticket.
“I have challenged APC before. I have defeated them severally with the government in power. You know what happened in Rivers State. All I am asking the delegates, if you really want PDP to win this election in 2023, just give me that ticket. Go home and sleep with your eyes closed. I will win the election.”
Wike berated the APC led federal government for its inability to stem the tide of insurgency and banditry in the country. He maintained that any government that cannot protect life and property has failed in its primary responsibility and should be voted out.
READ ALSO: How Atiku and Wike’s “fight” may hand PDP’s presidential ticket to Peter Obi
He reaffirmed that if elected President of Nigeria, he would end the current spate of insecurity and return the country to the path of inclusive prosperity.
According to him, he remains the only electable Presidential aspirant that could defeat the APC in the 2023 general election.
Former Gombe State governor, Dr.Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, said the history of the PDP cannot be complete without Wike, who joined the party in 1998 and has remained a faithful, supportive member.
He described Wike as a courageous and fearless leader who has in the last seven years transformed the infrastructural landscape of Rivers State.
A member of the PDP Board of Trustee, Maxwell Okudoh noted that if not for the effort of Governor Wike, the party would have gone into extinction.
Okudoh declared that at this critical juncture in Nigeria’s history, a courageous and determined leader was all that the country required to pull her out of the brink.


Share this on WhatsApp