Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka has said President Muhammadu Buhari decision to grant former governors of Plateau and Taraba State, Joshua Dariye and Jolly Nyame respectively presidential pardons, has embarrassed Nigerians across the world.
The two former governors who were jailed for corruption were among the 159 convicts granted presidential pardon by the Council of State presided by President Buhari last week Thursday.
Reacting in a statement on Tuesday, titled: “A Putrid Presidential Easter Egg,” Soyinka condemned the presidential pardon granted to the former governors who were jailed for corruption.
The playwright said the president’s action has embarrassed Nigerians across the world, stating that the citizens cannot forget or wipe off the memory in a hurry.
Soyinka added that the prerogative of mercy granted to the former leaders has rubbished the anti-corruption campaign of the Buhari administration.
READ ALSO: I didn’t endorsed Buhari in 2015, Soyinka opens up
“Of course, it is easy to track the trajectory of events. Nettled by increasingly scabrous comments, such as those of his predecessor in office, Olusegun Obasanjo, who declared that this incumbent has run out of ideas, that he has nothing left to offer the nation, Muhammad Buhari decided to embark on the Easter train and donate an Easter egg of truly presidential proportions to his subjects.
“Coming from a leader who had placed all his eggs in one basket, labelled Anti-Corruption, this is one egg squashed against Nigerian faces that they shall not forget – or wipe off – in a hurry. It evokes the legend of Pandora’s Box whose contents are alleged to constitute all the ills that plague the world.
“Putrid to the core, allied to power provocations in numerous variations, such as catapulting a notorious player in the martyrdom of a serving Minister of Justice to the hub of governance wheel, these define the nature of bequests that have brought the nation to this moment of near dissolution. Precedents are no consolation, no excuses.
“One states the obvious in remarking that precedents either undermine or reinforce principles, and aspiring offenders, especially in the political domain, are encouraged or inhibited by the ease or difficulty of access to the fount of mercy. Officeholders, we presume, are constrained by the existence of that dangling Sword of Damocles – simply knowing that one day, the cloak of immunity will turn threadbare, and the awaited day of reckoning finds them answerable.
“Clearly, not any longer. You will forgive, though disagree with me, I know, for clambering onto the Easter wagon myself, to echo the words of the One whose passage through the world the Easter season commemorates: “It is finished!”
Share this on WhatsApp