Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The All Progressives Congress  (APC) Spokesman in Lagos State, Mr Seye Oladejo, has officially thrown hat in the ring to jostle for Mushin Constituency II Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives ahead of 2023 general elections.

Oladejo in his declaration noted that his passion and love to bring democratic dividends closer to his constituents drove him to make the decision to vie for the seat.

In the presence of hundreds of APC leaders and members, market leaders, artisans, friends and associates at the Archbishop Aggey Memorial School, Ilasamaja Mushin, Lagos, the former Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-governmental Relations in the state his watch word remains public service and qualitative service delivery to people.

The one-time Secretary and  Chairman of Mushin Local Government Area promised to provide and guarantee qualitative, discerning, visible and result-oriented representation for his constituency if elected.

“As a man, who is passionate about public service, I am inspired by the courage and achievements of all the leaders who have charted the path of development for Mushin II Federal Constituency.

“I have decided, like the great American President John F. Kennedy, not to continue to wait for what my constituency, state and country can do for me, but to challenge myself on what to do for my constituency, state and country.

“For over two decades I have proved beyond reasonable doubt that I am someone to be trusted with public office. I have shown accountability and transparency in service at local and state levels,” he said.

Oladejo, who noted that he had served APC at local and state levels, said that his experience in public communication and media relations made the party elected his as Publicity Secretary in 2019.

“Now, I believe it is high time for me to yield to the clarion call of my constituents calling on me to represent Mushin II Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives come 2023 on the platform of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC).

“I will also leverage on the experience of the best hands in Mushin II Federal Constituency to provide the desired representation in every sense of the word to my constituents,” he said.

Oladejo, formerly Special Adviser for Commerce and Industry to former Gov. Babatunde Fashola, promised to collaborate with other colleagues in the National Assembly to review some laws that had remained a clog in the Nigeria’s march towards true federalism to engender progress, unity and fair-play.

The APC spokesman added that if elected efforts would be devoted to ensure the Federal Government recognise the 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) to take the state to a greater height.

“I assure you that if I am elected as a member of the House of Representatives, representing Mushin II Federal Constituency, I am going to be a visible, listening, discerning and active legislator in the Green Chamber.

“I will also contribute my quota to the growth and development of our dear Lagos State and Nigeria.

“I will do this and many other great things to fulfill my part of the social contract with the people and collaborate with other arms of government to bring unquantifiable benefits to my people,” he assured.

The APC spokesman, therefore, called on leaders, members and stakeholders of the ruling party within and outside Mushin to support his aspiration to be APC flagbearer in the Feb. 25 House of Representatives  primaries.

Speaking at the event, Mrs Olayinka Oladunjoye, an APC political chieftain and former Commissioner for Education, who expressed support for Oladejo’s candidacy, said she was confident the aspirant would be a good representative of the people.

The leaders of Ndigbo and Arewa communities as well as market and community leaders in Mushin LGA also endorsed Oladejo for the House of Representatives.

Speaking on behalf of the Igbo community, Chief Chris Ekwilo,  said that Oladejo carried the non Yoruba speaking constituents along when he was the council boss.

Ekwilo, who said that Igbos would work assiduously to see to the election of Oladejo, urged  party leaders in the state to consider aspirant for the party ticket.

Alhaji Hussein Abdullahi, the Chairman, Arewa in Mushin LGA said: ” We are assuring you. We will not sleep nor rest until you win the election. We will work perfectly for you.”

Abdullahi, who commended Oladejo for always standing by the non indigene, said that the Arewa community would not hesitate to support and work for his ambition.
Share this on WhatsApp