Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveEkiti residents want death penalty for kidnappers.
 
Residents of Ikole-Ekiti, Ikole Local Government Area on Sunday appealed to the state governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi to propose an amendment bill that would pronounce a death sentence on kidnappers.
 
Some of the residents, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria in Ikole -Ekiti, said it was time for the state government to take drastic actions against perpetrators of kidnapping in the community.
They noted that the death penalty should be pronounced on anybody caught indulging in such a crime to serve as a deterrent to others who plan to carry out the evil act.
One of the residents, Mr Bayo Ayeni, a civil servant, noted that Ekiti was no longer safe for both the children and adults because of the fear of kidnappers.
“I want to appeal to our governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi to take bold steps to curb kidnapping in Ekiti.
“The only way I believe insecurity, such as kidnapping can be stopped is for Gov. Fayemi to pronounce the death penalty on the perpetrators.
“With the support of the State House of Assembly and the judiciary, kidnapping will be eradicated in Ekiti,” he said.
He further appealed to the state government to be proactive in curbing insecurity in the state.
Another resident, Mrs Ronke Adu, a trader, said that she and her family no longer travel through the Ijesa Isu-Ekiti road because of the fear of being kidnapped.
Adu appealed to the state government to find a lasting solution to kidnapping and all sorts of crimes in the community.
She advised the governor to ensure that any of the kidnappers caught should be prosecuted and sentenced to death.
Mr Kayode Afolabi, a welder, who is also a resident of Ikole-Ekiti told NAN that the high rate of insecurity in the community had become unbearable.
Afolabi urged the state government to set up a security committee to investigate and find out the perpetrators of the crimes.
He noted that death penalty for the kidnappers would definitely reduce crimes and discourage individuals from engaging in the wicked act.
“The security agencies should be proactive in curbing crimes because the level of insecurity in our community has become worrisome.
“The kidnappers are busy collecting ransom before the victims can be released and those who are yet to pay are still with them.
“I am appealing to the state governor to pronounce the death penalty on kidnappers caught because they are heartless,” he said.
Another resident, Mrs Omowumi Adelusi, a tailor, said that the activities of kidnappers in Ikole-Ekiti and Ijesa Isu-Ekiti communities had become worrisome in the past few weeks.
Adelusi narrated how residents now live in fear and find it difficult to travel to neighbouring communities.
She appealed to the state government to put in place security measures to end the activities of the kidnappers and focus on getting rid of anybody caught.
“It is has become difficult for some of us to travel to the neighbouring communities around us because I don’t want to be kidnapped.
“I want to appeal to the state government to take drastic measures against these gunmen who are kidnapping and asking for huge ransoms from innocent and poor people of our community.
“Anybody caught indulging in kidnapping should be executed to curb these evil men from forming a terrorist group in the state,” she said.
NAN reports that between March 21 and March 31, no fewer than 20 persons were kidnapped by gunmen along Ijesa Isu-Ekiti and Ikole -Ekiti roads.
Youths of the community protested against incessant kidnappings in the communities and called for the immediate release of the victims.
They called for an immediate response from the security agencies as well from both the local and the state governments.
Share this on WhatsApp