Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveLagos govt tasks youths on marketing tourism potential for wealth creation.
 
The Lagos State Government has called on youths to focus on marketing the tourism potential in the state for wealth creation.
Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, the state Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, made the call on Thursday during a familiarisation tour to the Nike Art Gallery in Lekki, Lagos.
The visit to the gallery is part of a three-day tour of the various tourism sites across the five divisions of the state.
The tour, tagged , “bestoflagosfamtour2022”, is in response to call by different tourism stakeholders to further expose the tourism assets of the state to both local and international tourists.
The commissioner said that no fewer than 10 tourism sites in the state had been visited during the course of the tour.
According to her, with this, the youth have been exposed to ample opportunities in the tourism industry that can be cultivated for wealth creation.
She urged them to take up the tourism potential and engage in intense promotion of the sites to woo both local and international tourists.
Akinbile-Yusuf assured Nigerians that the state government would continue to create the enabling environment for tourism businesses to thrive.
“I want to appreciate everyone that has been on this journey, the main reason we embarked on these journeys was to enable you market Lagos as choice destination for tourists.
“For the youths, i want you to come onboard and join this beautiful dream of promoting Lagos tourism potential, considering the beautiful coastal areas, beaches, historical sites, art galleries, museums, recreational parks and more.
“We have our masterplan to guide you and the community-based tourism development is ongoing. You have a whole lot of tourism sites to take visitors to.
“I believe this tour has improved your knowledge of the tourism potential in the state.
“Exploring these potential and marketing same will generate huge revenue for you and the state, so it will be a win win situation,” she said
Akinbile-Yusuf said that the state government was ready to train practitioners in the tourism industry frequently to keep them abreast of best international practises.
“We will continue to engage you in training, we take it seriously, as at today, we have trained over 200 tour guides to ensure tourists have the best experience.
“In the process of marketing the state’s tourism potential, let us know if you are encountering any challenge so that we can wade into those problems,” she said.
Earlier, Nike Okudaye, Chief Executive Officer, Nike Art Gallery, urged the youth, tourism stakeholders and practitioners to remain hospitable to tourists.
Okudaye said they should also focus on rendering local products like palm wine, zobo, coconut, among others to tourists and not wine.
According to her, it is a way of promoting our local products.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that other dignitaries on the tour were: Special Adviser to Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tourism, Mr Solomon Bonu; Mr Fatai Oluwa, Chairman House Committee on Tourism, Arts and Culture; Mr Ikechi Uko, Organiser, AKWAABA Africa Travel and Tourism Market and other tourism stakeholders.
The team had earlier visited Freedom Park, JK Randle Centre for Yoruba Culture and History, Afrika Shrine, Vlekete slave market in Badagry, Heritage Museum, Lagos theatre, Naija Tourism Radio, Agia tree, Ikeja and Oshodi bus terminals.
Share this on WhatsApp