Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


As preparations for the 2023 general elections in Nigeria continue to gather momentum, several topics bothering on it have constantly occupied the public space. Social media platforms remain one major avenue where people prefer to air their views on these topical topics.
One of the most discussed issue as regards the 2023 general elections remains the most appropriate geo-political zone where the next president should emerge from. Zoning arrangements have been discussed in the inner caucuses of the key political parties (All People’s Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).
Several fora have highlighted the need for a particular geo-political zone to produce the next president while some key stakeholders in Nigerian politics have aired their respective views on why particular candidates should become the next president using their tribe as a major yardstick.
In his usual practice, Joe Igbokwe took to his social media pages to throw his weight behind the southern part of Nigeria and opined that the region should produce the next president. In his post on Facebook, the APC stalwart stated that it is non negotiable for power to shift to southern Nigeria in 2023. Read his exact statements below.
“For the avoidance of doubt, let it be known and it is hereby made known that power goes to the southern Nigeria in 2023. It is an unwritten rule, at least for now. Please know this and have inner peace”.

For those who are not aware, Joe Igbokwe is a staunch APC member who does not shy away from making this known everywhere he goes. He is a Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Drainage and Water Resources. The politician occasionally throws in controversial remarks and opinions and is known to be a loyal supporter of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Having made his presidential ambitions public, it is needful to state that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has received fair shares of supports and criticisms from Nigerians. The APC National leader’s health status, academic credentials, net worth, etc. have been brought to the fore in recent times following his declaration to run for the presidency in 2023.

Joe Igbokwe has extensively used his social media platforms to drum support for Asiwaju. Going by his post mentioned above, it can be inferred that he is rooting for Tinubu to become the next president of the federal republic of Nigeria. He displays his loyalty to the national leader and urges others to tow the same line going by Tinubu’s contributions to the growth of Nigeria’s democracy
It is quite commendable that Joe Igbokwe keeps drumming support for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Using his social media platforms to accomplish this is also commendable as he is poised to reach lots of people.


Share this on WhatsApp