Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has strongly condemned the Minister of State for Education Mr. Emeka Nwajiuba of Imo State for the ill-advised decision to buy the N100 million presidential nomination of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Nwajiuba obtained the forms which go for N100 million on Wednesday.
The minister got the forms after a group called Project Nigeria claimed they raised the funds.
The Minister on Monday said he was informed by the group that about 1,000 individuals contributed the said amount.
However, HURIWA argued that all the serving ministers who enjoy no statutory tenures but picked forms to succeed their boss would have been dismissed forthwith.
HURIWA said the junior education minister is not even qualified to run for the office of a Senator if Nigeria is lawful going by the abysmal failure of the ministry of Education to maintain academic stability in the public tertiary educational system in the Country in the last 7 years.
READ ALSO: HURIWA cautions Police against unlawful arrest in Imo
In a statement signed by the group’s national coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, HURIWA described Okigwe, the minister’s senatorial zone as the least developed in the country.
“Okigwe is today the least developed Senatorial zone in all of Nigeria even when it is one of the oldest in terms of period of creation in the 1970s but this Minister of education who has been colourless and phenomenally poor in performance is insulting our national psyche by buying the overpriced Presidential nomination form from his party.
“How on Earth will these distracted ministers like Emeka Nwajiuba, Chris Ngige, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi be focused towards efficient and dynamic public service delivery when they are actively involved in chasing after their delusional  political ambitions to be President? This is an unmitigated political disaster and a shame of a lifetime that this infamy is tolerated by President Muhammadu Buhari”.
HURIWA therefore asked NANS if it hasn’t been compromised and hijacked by political forces like the Nigerian Labour Congress to peacefully occupy the national Secretariat of the APC to demand that the hierarchy reject the purchase of the multimillion Naira worth Presidential nomination form by the poorly performing education minister whose ineffectiveness has kept students away from schools for two Months.
“The Academic Staff Union of Universities should similarly embark on such a civil disobedience course and they will inevitably be supported by hundreds of credible Civil society stakeholders including the HUMAN RIGHTS WRITERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA (HURIWA).

Share this on WhatsApp