Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Social activist and Presidential aspirant, Omoyele Sowore has stated reasons why former governor of Anambra state, Peter Obi should not be elected as president of the country come 2023.
Sowore who spoke on Tuesday during a live interview on AriseTV, accused Peter Obi, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other governors in the South-East of fueling insecurity in the region.
Sowore accused the former Anambra State governor, in response to a question about the type of leader Nigeria needs.
According to Sowore, the current degeneration of security in the South East commenced when Peter Obi and other governors in the region massacred members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
READ ALSO: Sowore drags LASU, Sanwo-Olu over Tinubu’s poster in convocation hall
The IPOB has been at the forefront of secessionist agitations over the alleged neglect of the region by the Federal Government.
“A good person is a person with character, exposure and understanding of how to govern. He has to bring competent hands and we don’t have the shortage of such persons but the process to elect such people has been a stumbling block.
“We have seen cases whereby even Igbo leaders victimize their people especially the Igbo governors who led the massacre of IPOB members; particularly Peter Obi, so the fixation on origin is not healthy for the country,” Sowore stated.
He further disagreed with the Afenifere leader, Pa Ayo Adebanjo over the zoning of the Presidency to any particular region, noting that such “old ideas” should be put to rest.
This was in response to an earlier insistence by Pa Adebanjo over the emergence of an Igbo Presidency.
Sowore said, “I disagree with Pa Ayo Adebanjo regarding choosing for Nigerians based on the problematic len of ethnicity; what I tell the elders is to allow the old ideas to rest, based on ethnic considerations, which has been tried without success.
Share this on WhatsApp