Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
cite corruption indicators

Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a group passionate about the protection of democratic tenets, the Joint Action for Good Governance (JAGG), have berated the exorbitant price of the party’s expression of interest and nomination form, describing it as a confirmation that corruption is their trademark.

The Lagos PDP Publicity Secretary, Hakeem Amode made the assertion in a statement issued on Thursday, unequivocally faulting the outrageous prices of the APC nomination forms.

Amode said that: “The cost of All Progressives Congress, APC, expression of interest and nomination forms, put at N100 million is a reflection of the party’s corruption-riddled body, which should interest the country’s anti-corruption agencies.

“When a politician pays such an amount, if he wins, recouping his “investments” would be priority.” Amode said.

It would be recalled that the APC NEC has recently given approval that the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms for presidential ticket be sold at N100 million naira.

While the governorship goes for N50 million,Senate N20 mllion, House of Representatives N10 million and the state Assembly N2 million respectively.

Lagos PDP opines that, “that has turned APC into corruption-riddled capitalist venture,the nomination form fees is a reflection of how corrupt the party is.

“How can someone pay N30 million for expression of interest form and  N70 million for  a nomination form, if they are not all corrupt?

“We should ask for their tax returns. Are they paying tax? If yes, are they actually paying the correct amount to justify this kind of amount for forms?

“How many Nigerian billionaires pay the correct tax?

“So, somebody who’s buying these forms for N100 million, should be paying taxes in excess of N10 or N15 billion.

“The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, should investigate those that will purchase these forms.

“This is a good confirmation that Nigerians should not attempt to vote for APC come 2023.

“Who will ‘invest’ N100 million and not focus on recouping if voted in?

“Despite the outcry over the betrayal and abandoning of the masses for close to eight years, the party still wants to perpetrate the worse form of governance.

“Nigerians know better now. They should speak with their voting power.”

However, JAGG in a statement jointly signed by Comrade Abdulwaheed Odunuga the National Vice Chairman and the Secretary Comrade Aderibigbe Razaq, the group also berates the outrageous price tag on the nomination forms.

According to JAGG the increase is a deliberate attempt to disenfranchise majority of interested candidates from jostling to clinch the party’s ticket, as the arrangement will end up favouring money bags and hitherto anointed candidates .

The group queries the rationale behind the increase and describes the effort as insensitive considering the economic situation of the country.

“We are not being sincere about our fight against corruption when we expect aspirants to reduce their wealth by one-tenth of a billion naira, to increase the wealth of the Party and we are not asking question about the source of the funds .

“We will end up grooming criminals in two ways: as elected officials who had paid huge funds to finance his or her ambition and prospecting candidates who would need to siphon enough money to cater for subsequent elections.

“Party’s flagbearers should not be chosen based on how wealthy they are, but rather based on how creative they have been in managing and solving public matters and societal problems.

“This action of APC is clearly insensitive and definitely not in the interest of the ordinary Nigerians with inalienable rights to seek and contest the elective positions.

JAGG also raised a poser on what are the likely justification for the increase.

“What is the justification of the party’s high demands in fees for nomination forms?

“The amount is too outrageous. It is not good for democracy.

The group maintained that the move is suspicious, suggesting that the fee for nomination form of the President shouldn’t be more than N25,000,000, that of the Governor’s N10,000,000 , Senator- N5,000,000,  House of Representative – N2,000,000 and State  House of Assembly Member- N1,000,000 respectively.

The group counseled that an immediate review of the nomination fees will be most appropriate given the economic situation of the country.


Share this on WhatsApp