Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has announced that all candidates who registered for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) can now start printing their 2022 UTME notification slips effective from Saturday.
The Director of Information and Technology Services of JAMB, Fabian Okoro, in a statement on JAMBULLETIN, emphasized that the 2022 UTME notification slip is available for printing by all candidates who registered for the examination scheduled to hold from May 6 to 14.
The Director of Information and Technology Services noted that the printing of examination notification slip is compulsory for all candidates, saying that it enables them to know the venue, date, session, and time of their examination.
“All candidates are advised to print slips on time so as to know the location of their examination centres, date of their scheduled sessions and time of the examination beforehand, especially with the adjustment in examination schedules this year,” he said.
According to the statement: “This would guide them in making necessary arrangements ahead of the exercise as the board frowns at lateness to its examination; no excuses would be entertained from any candidates as a stitch in time, saves nine.
“Candidates need not visit any CBT centres for the printing of the notification slip as it can be done at any available internet point, be it private or public. To print the slip, candidates are to visit https://www.jamb.gov.ng then click on 2022 UTME slip printing then insert registration number to print.
“The slip contains candidates’ important details such as registration number, the centre to which they were to sit the examination within their chosen examination town, and the expected time to be at the centre.”
JAMB authorities also stated that all candidates would be checked into the examination hall using the Biometric Verification Machine (BVM), adding that a register of attendance in line with its policy of ‘no biometric verification, no examination’ will be used.
The Board warned that there would be no rescheduling of the examination for whatever reason, adding that candidates must prepare ahead and stay close to their examination venues and if possible, pay a prior visit to their centres before the date of the examination.
JAMB also advised candidates to be careful not to run afoul of the law relating to prohibited items, cautioning that necessary sanctions would be meted out to violators of its code of conduct.
The prohibited items were identified to include flash drives, smart watches, calculators, recorders, mobile phones, spy reading glasses and jewelleries, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp