Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveLG boss tasks oil coy, donors agencies on water supply.
 
Mr Erastus Awortu, Chairman, Andoni local government area in Rivers has called on donor agencies and oil companies in the area to support his administration’s Water initiative.
The initiative is known as the “Neighborhood Water Scheme” aimed at addressing lingering water shortage in the local area council.
Awortu made the call on Tuesday at Asuk-Oyet and Asuk-ama Communities while monitoring some newly refurbished water supply plants in the area.
The facilities consist of a newly procured 4,000 liters and 3,800 liters capacity water tanks, water treatments facilities, electricity generating sets and water pumping marchines.
The Chairman said that lack of portable water had in the past created a challanging gap in lifestyle ranging from medical to domestic constraints for the local populace.
“For this reason, my administration is striving towards achieving zero tolerance to consumption of surface water/pond through the neighborhood water scheme.
“I have undertaken water supply as part of a deliberate policy to check Cholera and other water borne diseases.
“The neighborhood water projects has so far delivered potable water in four communities, efforts are on track to begin construction of two water supply plants in two communities in the coming weeks.
“Water is life and we will continue to ensure that within available resources, we will provide this life’s necessity across our local communities.
“My target is to ensure every community gets access to portable water, this depends largely on the resources but I’m optimistic that we can achieve this,” he said.
The council boss also urged other communities grappling with the challanges of water shortage to remain hopeful as his administration would strive to surmount them.
He however urged donor agencies and operating companies to partner with the council to enable it achieve set target.
Responding, paramount rulers of the two benefiting Communities Chief Brown Asuk and Chief James Athanasius commended the Council Chairman and his team for delivering people oriented projects since assumption of office.
They pledged to guard the water plants and its facilities from vandals and warned against any attempt that would frustrate the laudable gesture.
Share this on WhatsApp