Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Bayern Munich goal machine Robert Lewandowski has been tipped to quit the Bavarian giants with a move to Barcelona.
National Daily understands that the 33-year-old is out of contract next summer and does not intend to stay with Bayern beyond June 2023, having been with the Bundesliga giants since 2014.
It was further gathered by National Daily from the report by Polish publication TVP Sport that the prolific striker has already held discussions with Barcelona over a move to the Camp Nou and that details over a contract have been agreed.
Whether this move comes this summer or at the end of his contract is not entirely clear and may be up to Bayern as to whether they want to get a transfer fee for him this year or are happy for the Pole to leave on a free transfer next year.
The report states that Lewandowski has told Bayern CEO Oliver Kahn of his decision and the club knows he will not be with them past 2023.
He may be turning 34 in August, but Lewandowski is arguably still the world’s finest centre-forward and is still producing quite incredible goal-scoring numbers.
The former Borussia Dortmund superstar has scored 46 goals in 40 games in all competitions this season, currently the top scorer in both the Bundesliga and the Champions League.
Having won the Bundesliga seven times with Bayern and another two times with Dortmund, it appears ‘Lewy’ wants a different challenge before his career comes to an end.
Although that not be any time soon, with the forward saying in December that he does not just intend to keep playing, but thinks he can still improve as a player.
‘At my age, some footballers are already thinking about how they will end their careers. But I think that I can take further steps and still improve,’ he said.
‘I love football and want to be able to play as long as possible and at the highest level.
‘The big challenge for all professional footballers remains to cope with the intensity on a mental and physical level.’
Share this on WhatsApp