Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A 25-year old kidnapping suspect, Ahmed Bello has confessed to kidnapping one Miss Hannah Queen, his fiancée in order to raise money to marry her.
Bello was among four suspected kidnappers arrested by the Police IRT led by DCP Olatunji Disu in connection with the kidnapping of Hannah Queen, a lawyer and daughter of a renowned diplomat at Apo Estate in Abuja.
Hannah was kidnapped in Abuja, at Suniville Estate, Apo, on the 26th March 2022. The incident was reported to the IRT headquarters at Guzape by the kidnapped victim’s Uncle, ACP Yusuf Sanni, which led to the kidnapper’s arrest, after the victim was released.
The suspects are all between the ages of 20-30 years, they are identified as Bello Ahmed, male, 25-year-old, who hails from Gombe town in Gombe State, Ibrahim Mohammed, male, 30-year-old, from Katsina LGA of Katsina State, Bilyamiyu Mohammed, male, and also age 30, from Sokoto South LGA Sokoto State, and Uche Daniel, male, and 30-year-old, a native of Obowo town, Obowo LGA Imo State.
READ ALSO: Holy Anger: Kidnappers snatch 2 kids during service, congregation pursue, rescue, serve justice
It was gathered from the Police investigations that the key suspect already had a wife and two children in Dubai, before relocating to Nigeria to conspire with other criminals to kidnap his supposed Nigerian fiancée for ransom syndicate, to perfect the crime.
The key suspect confessed that they expected a total of fifty million naira (N50 million) as ransom from the parents of the victim, adding that he had expected the gang would get up to at least N10 million naira (N10million) each.
The key victim narrates: “My ex-lover put so much pressure on me to marry her, and I kidnapped her in order to raise the money I needed.
“I regret my involvement in the act as I couldn’t get the money I expected will be paid as ransom”.
He had rented an apartment at the aforementioned estate in the Nigerian capital city (Abuja) upon his relocation to Nigeria based on the relationship he had established with the victim he promised to marry, before the kidnap incident was perfected.
Bello was alleged to have brought in the other three gang of kidnappers into the 3- bedroom bungalow apartment three days before he arranged the kidnapping, when his spouse visited and was relaxing in his living room.
After the criminal gang abducted him and his supposed fiancée into captivity, he made the victim believe he had sent ten million naira (N10million) to the kidnappers for their release through a fake bank alert until she discovered the antics and started calling her parents for her release.
Further Police interrogations of the suspects had revealed that he had planned to marry the lady as his second wife in November 2022, but he decided to do the marriage ceremony in July this year in order to forestall the possibility of her marrying someone else.



Share this on WhatsApp