Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


target consolidation of good works

The Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, representing Ikorodu constituency 1 has appealed to his constituents to re-elect him for the fifth term.

Agunbiade while speaking at a forum organised to officially declare his re-election bid, notes that this will enable him consolidate the good works he has been doing at the state Assembly.
The lawmaker who doubles as the Opomulero of Ikorodu  Kingdom also presented his score card to his constituents with a promise to attract more dividends of democracy to the area when given another opportunity to serve.

Speaking at a well attended gathering in his Constituency office, Ikorodu, Lagos, Agunbiade announced his intention to run for the 2023 Assembly election under the platform of the All Progressives Party, APC, stressing that he is seeking re-election for larger picture and to consolidate on achievements recorded as a member of the House.
Agunbiade said: “Over the years as the representative of the people of Ikorodu Constituency 1, I  have attracted so many projects that cut across all sectors of the economy, I am also determined to do more in collaboration with other legislators from Ikorodu and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.

“Over the years the voice of the people of Ikorodu Constituency 1 was quite pronounced on the floor of the State legislature as I have sponsored bills and motions as well as contributed qualitatively to debates where the interest of the constituents were canvassed.”
The articulate and highly cerebral legislator also disclosed that he has embarked on a good number of empowerment programs to uplift the socio-economic standards of the people, saying that he has facilitated the employment of about 110 constituents as providing a sustainable means of livelihood were his hallmark.

Agunbiade listed other areas worthy of mention to include scholarship and other Students Assistance Scheme, including 800 free UTME JAMB forms, Schools infrastructure, Health support, roads Infrastructure, market men & women empowerment, Borehole projects, facilitation of transformers, Oba Shotobi Mini Marathon, sponsoring of ASA Carnival, among others.
The erudite Lawmaker, while canvassing for understanding and cooperation of the people of Ikorodu Constituency 1 over his aspiration for the fifth term in office, recalled the past supports that brought him thus far, assuring all that he would always respect the confidence reposed in him by the people.


Share this on WhatsApp