Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePeter Albert was earnest about making megabucks from his internet scam he called computer games. But he ended up fast dead moments after going through a midnight ritual his witchdoctor/alfa recommended at Ado Odo, Ogun.
A report by the Nation revealed an exclusive WhatsApp chat Albert and Alfa had before the 20-year-old Yahoo Boy went offline—dead. Albert father found the chat in his son’s phone.
Peter: Good morning sir. (I am) from David.
‘Alfa wa: ”Morning. He(David) already told me. Ur name?
Peter: ”Peter. I need your help, sir.
Alfa wa: On?
Albert: “(I) have been playing game (cyber scam) for a long time and have not collect(ed) any money. I have even called David to take me to your place since; he did not answer.
Alfa wa: “He (David) told me that also. I just don’t welcome anyhow person. He hve (sic) been telling me dis since but I do ignore him.
Peter: “Pls sir, anyhow you can help me, sir.
Alfa wa: “But when he (David) later told me that u haven’t cashout (make money), it somehow hurts me. And he (also) told me dat ur mum is late.
Peter: “Yes sir.
Alfa wa: “Everything will soon be better.
Peter: “Sir, me too want to cash out (make mega money).
Alfa wa: “Calm down. All dat we (sic) soon become a history. Just follow my instructions and be loyal to me. Lobatan. That’s all what you need.
Peter: “Ok sir. (I) have even go (ne) to many places, they jut collect(ed) money from me.
Alfa wa: “He (David) told me too. If you don’t buy fake you can’t identify the original.
Peter: “Ok sir. Like how much should I find now?. I want the one that will pick fast.
Alfa wa: “How much can you afford peacefully, that won’t affect ur financial (sic)? Can you afford like 200k (N200,000)? Confirm. Between a weak if you don’t see like N5m there is a guarantee to return your money back (sic).
I suppose to meet you one-on-one but I am not around now. I am on travel (sic).
Peter: “Sir, for now, I don’t have much with me but the amount I can find fr now is 5k(N5000). We should start from small level, even for now am feeding myself. Sir, anyhow you can help me.
Alfa Wa: “5k?Hmmmmm.
Peter: “Can’t the N5k work?
Alfa wa: “Just that it can’t pick as you want.
Peter: “I want the one that will pick fast
Alfa wa: “Pick fast? Well sha, no p (problems) David too, that’s how he started.
Peter: “Sir, I will start from small.
Alfa wa: “Issorit (is alright). Obe todun owo lopa (good soup is usually expensive). Even if I do 1k (N1000) level for you it will pick, believe me. U can even ask out about it.
Peter: “You that start with 5k, no one will tell u to do 50k till 500k (N500,000). Hope you have a good instrument (computer) sha?
Peter: “Yes sir.
Alfa wa: “Try as much as possible to add 2k (N2,000) to it and send it to 2199911406 UBA bank.
Peter: “Sir, that’s what I have for now.
Alfa wa: Okay.
Peter: “Sir, can I send N3k now. I will send 2k tomorrow.
Alfa wa: “Ok.”
The chats also revealed how the said cleric became angry when Albert did not turn up at his place as they earlier agreed. The deceased, however, apologized.
Alfa wa: “I didn’t see you again. Why are you doing this?
Peter: “I am not around, that’s why. I will come on Thursday.
Alfa wa: “I am also not around.
Peter: “Haa, so when will you come back, sir.
Alfa wa: “Till weekend. But I don’t like disappointment. I always work with time. I am time conscious.
Peter: “Sir, I am at Ayobo now. But I am coming today evening.
Alfa wa: “Evening like what time?
Peter: “Around 6 pm.
Alfa wa: “Okay. It (the rituals) can still be done.
Peter: “Ok sir. 
The ritual failed. Albert had no luck. But another ritual was in the aking before he fell sick and died.
 
Share this on WhatsApp