Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveMuttaqha Rabe-Darma, a governorship aspirant in Katsina State under the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), has presented five books he wrote on how to govern the state.
Presenting the books on Friday in Katsina, Rabe-Darma said the books would be beneficial not only to him, but to any person that becomes the state governor in 2023.
According to him, the books include; Partway to Good Governance, Foundation for Greatness, Pillars of Greatness, Thinking Greatness and Thinking Greatness ll.
He said that for the over three decades that the state has been in existence, it has never been confronted with myriad of difficult challenges as in recent years.
Rabe-Darma said, “This booklet contains summary, conclusions and key messages in the five books entitled ‘Pathways to Greatness’, to search for ways to make the state great again.
“The main objective of writing the books has been to provide an independent, in-depth and fairly objective analysis of the root causes of our backwardness.
“This can be achieved through using social and academic indicators and subsequently provide pathways the author believed shall help us come out of the many collective disadvantages and inactions we have and are still suffering today as a state.
“Its key objective has also been to give the prospective future governments direction, using workable methods and pragmatic frameworks for making Katsina State great.
“Greatness in the conception of the works can be achieved largely from a focus on human development, which shall ensure human security that will translate to better living standard,” he said.
He explained that the books are presented to the public under the auspices of Movement for Greater Katsina State and shall be distributed to all interested citizens and stakeholders who are passionate about the development and growth of the state.
“Even so, it gladdens my heart to inform you that citizens that may be interested in the e- or soft copies of the books, can have access to them on our App, called “HOPEKTS in the Play store,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp