Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


It is now getting clearer, that the Former President, Goodluck Jonathan may not contest Presidential race, under the Platform of the All Progressives Congress in 2023, in contrary to the speculations of the People.

It should be recalled, that there have been several agitations and rumours that Goodluck Jonathan, may contest Presidential race under the Platform of the Party.
Some Leaders of the Party, had earlier visited Goodluck Jonathan and Persuaded him to dump the Peoples Democratic Party PDP for APC but Jonathan has refused to do so.
Though, Some Loyalists of Goodluck Jonathan had dumped the PDP for APC. Some of his Loyalists who had dumped the PDP for APC, are Former Minister of Niger Delta, Elder Peter Orubebe and Senator Stella Oduah.
It should be recalled that Stella Oduah is the Former Minister of Aviation, under Goodluck Jonathan. However, Jonathan has taken a wise decision by endorsing a Presidential Candidate in PDP.

Goodluck Jonathan recently endorsed the Governor of Bauchi State, Governor Bala Mohammed, as his annointed Presidential Aspirant, under the Platform of the PDP.
It should be recalled that Governor Bala Mohammed is one of the Leading PDP Presidential Aspirants. He visited Goodluck Jonathan at his residence to seek for his support in 2023 Presidential race.
Meanwhile, Jonathan welcomed Bala Mohammed and declared his support for him, that he will support his Presidential Ambition.
However, Jonathan’s endorsement for Bala Mohammed, is an indication that Goodluck Jonathan had Pledge hundred Percent loyalty to his Party PDP and this will give the Leaders of the Party, the assurance that he is truly with them.The Point is that Goodluck Jonathan
It should be recalled that Governor Bala Mohammed was Minister for the Federal Capital Territory FCT, under Goodluck Jonathan and his outstanding Performance as Minister, made Jonathan to embrace his Presidential Ambition.
The Point is that Goodluck Jonathan’s endorsement, for the Presidential Ambition of Governor Bala Mohammed, is an indication that he is still very loyal to PDP.
Though, Some Loyalists of Goodluck Jonathan, might have dumped the PDP for APC but Jonathan still remain loyal to the Progress of his Party, PDP.
This is just an opinion, anyone having contrary Opinions criticize the write up constructively without insults. Kindly Like, Share and comment reasonably


Share this on WhatsApp