Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A young woman who waited for over 10 years to have a child has died two days after giving birth to twins.
According to the deceased’s sister, Nancy Chiaka who shared the saddened story, after 10 years of waiting and finally receiving double blessings, my sister Mrs. Gloria Chiaka Aderibigbe died due to complications after birth.
She said the woman gave birth on December 23 and died on the 25.
The heartbroken sibling while sharing the disheartening news wrote: “I am at a loss of words my darling sister. Sis Gee I fondly call you. My padi, my gist partner, my personal person.
“Where do I start from egbon mi….my world is broken. How do I cope with your demise, egbon mi…
READ ALSO: 16-year olds caught trying to use girl for money ritual
“D first day u woke me up n told me u were pregnant!!! sleep left my eyes …I cried, cried, thank God, held your hands and we prayed together…..
“eee….y u con leave me wt d twins God bless u with n u just gave up d ghost naaaaa after 10 years of waiting???
“We talked about the preparations, we were ready for their birth, brought drinks n all …all ready for the D-Day..
“Geeeee…we don’t talk like dis naaaa….how do I cope with taking care of the twins’ egbon mi. I held you on Thursday night and told you congratulations. I left, saw u in the ambulance struggling for life !!!!!!!
“Sissssssss!!! Not knowing it was my last..n u died on Christmas day, a day I will not forget in my life. I made sure your pregnancy journey was smooth, u did nothing but rested more…sis y na.
READ ALSO: Pregnant woman nabbed with 1,441kg of imported skunk
“We had plans, plenty plans on our journey to motherhood…n death took u away from me…how do I cope with your demise sis Gloria???
“Ur counseling helped me in so many ways, u were always there for me anytime I needed u. Where do I go from here?
“8 years of living with you, I learnt a lot from your marriage, from you, how u coordinated ur home. Sis mi, u were selfless. U were kind to a fault. U radiate anywhere u go. U never had enemies. U were a blessing to so many people u came across.
“I don’t know what else to write, oooooo. I will not forget u egbon mi. I will not forget yesterday. Rest well sis…”
Share this on WhatsApp