Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Food is controversially regarded as medication. This is based on multiple studies that reveal that while some foods can cause chronic health problems, others have powerful medicinal and preventive properties. As Hippocrates, the father of medicine, once said, “Let food be they medicine and medicine be thy food”. This does not mean that you should replace all of your medications with foods, but it does mean that you can improve your health and minimize your risk of diseases like heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, cancer, eye problems, arthritis, and others.
A stroke is a medical emergency that occurs when the blood supply to the brain is cut off, either because of a blockage (ischemic stroke) or because of a leak (hemorrhagic stroke). Paralysis, numbness, discomfort, loss of balance/coordination, and weakness are common stroke symptoms. No one wants to have a stroke, in my opinion.
Having said that, studies show that eating specific meals regularly can lower the chance of high blood pressure, which has been identified as the major cause of stroke, but other medical disorders such as diabetes and heart disease can also raise the risk of stroke.
As a result, the following typical foods should not be disregarded, but rather consumed on a regular (or daily) basis to avoid stroke.
1. Dry beanBeans are one of the greatest foods to eat because of their low glycemic index, which can help lower blood pressure and keep cholesterol levels in check. Dry beans include prebiotics, which are indigestible fibers that help the gut flora thrive and prevent stroke.
2. Oatmeal
Oatmeal is a great breakfast option that’s been linked to a lower risk of stroke. They include soluble fibers, which can help with cognitive and brain health.
3. Tomatoes
Fresh tomatoes are strong in lycopene, an antioxidant that can help you maintain healthy blood pressure and lower your risk of stroke.
4. Salmon
Salmon and other oily fish like mackerel and sardines contain significant levels of omega-3 fatty acids, which help to decrease blood pressure and prevent stroke. It also helps to keep the brain and heart-healthy.
5. Sweet potatoes
Sweet potatoes are high in potassium and magnesium, which can aid with blood pressure control. Potassium aids in the relaxation of blood vessels, particularly those in the brain, lowers blood pressure and eliminates sodium from the body, all of which can reduce the overall risk of stroke.
6. Nuts
The consumption of magnesium-rich foods on a daily basis has been shown to lessen the risk of stroke by 8%. Magnesium is found in nuts like almonds and cashews, which can help to reduce the risk of stroke.
7. Onions
Onions contain a potent antioxidant called dietary flavonol, which has been shown in studies to reduce the incidence of stroke by 20%. It also contains quercetin, which helps to lower blood pressure and prevent blood clots.
Reduce your intake of excessive sodium (salt), processed, and fried meals, which are important factors to high blood pressure and cholesterol buildup, both of which can lead to stroke.
Note that, rather than relying entirely on medicines, you may make food a formal treatment by selecting the correct foods.


Share this on WhatsApp