Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA humanitarian worker and human rights activist, Mr. Augustine Onwuamaegbu, who is the National President of Persons With Disability Initiative Nigeria, has narrated his ordeals in the hands of kidnappers along the Abuja-Kaduna highway.
Onwuamaegbu said he had gone in company of other volunteers on a free distribution of hearing aids, walking sticks and some relief materials to persons with disabilities in some villages when he was abducted.
According to him, the kidnappers had warned him to “stop fraternizing with some politicians in the opposition against the interest of the ruling government.
READ ALSO: Police arrest 11 notorious kidnappers, recover 7 AK47 rifles, 121 live ammunitions, others in Taraba
“They clearly warned me to stop exercising my freedom of expression given to me by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. They beat me and tortured me mercilessly and told me that it was the last warning from them and that they would be monitoring my movements, associations and utterances.
“I am afraid for my life because I am a person with a disability. We are a democracy but I am not allowed to freely associate with persons or groups recognised by the law of my country”, he said.
The visibly shaken humanitarian worker said it was the third time in a row he was being attacked, trailed by suspected assassins who had sent messages of threats to kill him unless he mobilizes persons with disabilities in Nigeria for a certain political party to win elections in the 2023 general elections.
READ ALSO: Imo monarch killed by kidnappers, corpse dumped at market square
According to him, he was trailed by the abductors sent by their political masters from Abuja and after they had picked him and beaten him mercilessly for two days, they abandoned him in an utterly helpless situation before some good Samaritans picked him from the bush where he was abandoned by his assailants.
He therefore called on the security agencies to put in more efforts to tackle the worsening security situation in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp