Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Have you ever wondered why you might be sweating more than usual? Probably you’re at work or at school carrying out a task which you often do almost every day, and then you start feeling hot and sweating profusely. In this article, you’re going to find out why that keeps happening.
Here are the possible reasons why your body is hot almost all the time.
1. Dehydration
When we watch athletes during a sporting event, we’re not surprised if they need to stop for water. After all, that much exercise especially on a hot day is bound to make someone sweat, and you need to replenish all that lost fluid somehow. So yes, severe dehydration can cause excess sweating and body hotness. Dehydration can cause a fever, as well as low blood pressure, and even unconsciousness.
2. Insulin resistance
If your body is insulin resistant, your liver, as well as your fat and muscles, partially reject your natural insulin, forcing your pancreas to make higher than normal amounts to compensate. You would need to make twice as much food to get them to eat the right amount at mealtime. When your body resists insulin, it’s difficult to keep your blood sugar levels from getting too high, and that alone can make you feel hot.
3. Panic attacks
Panic attacks are a real and a significant health issue. According to WebMD, a panic attack involves four or more different symptoms, including hot flashes, pain in your chest, a rapid heartbeat, nausea, shaking, difficulty catching your breath, and perspiration. A panic attack can last up to 10 minutes and you’ll be feeling all sweaty by the time its over.
4. Pregnancy
When a woman is carrying a baby, her body needs to make adjustments like pumping out more blood. This is to supply both the baby and the mother with all the oxygen and nutrients that they both need. And just like that, the expectant mother may feel hotter and sweatier than normal. Because of the heavier blood flow, a woman who is pregnant might find her skin is warmer. She also may experience night sweats.
5. Cancer
There are many reasons why someone may experience excess sweating, even at night. And cancer is definitely one of such reasons. It could be a sign that your body is battling cancer even if you’re not aware you have the condition. Just like your immune system will turn up the heat to battle viruses and bacteria, it may take a similar approach if you have a cancer.


Share this on WhatsApp