Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Countries in Europe can no longer bear the many lies and deceit they have propagated over the controversial coronavirus pandemic, and are now scrapping all manners of restrictions, COVID protocols and vaccine mandate. The United Kingdom (UK) has compared CPVID-19 to flu, while several European countries in the passing week disclosed plans to scrap COVID restrictions, including masks, quarantine rules and capacity restrictions at indoor venues.
The emerging trend indicates that COVID propaganda is coming to an end in Europe, and countries in Europe are beginning to lift total COVID restrictions.
The coronavirus phenomenon entered a turning point after the controversies in the United Kingdom (UK) over the 10 Downing Street party at the instance of the British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson.
Perhaps, the pressures from the controversies degenerating into agitations led to the relaxation of COVID restrictions in Britain, extending to Ireland, Norway and Wales indicating the scraping or complete end to restrictions that have taken away people’s freedom.
England has decided to lift almost all of its COVID restrictions, which will end compulsory face masks, social distancing, mandatory vaccination or COVID passports, before being in large gatherings.  Further action is that the government no longer advising people to work from home.
Prime Minister Boris Johnson had stated: “We will trust the judgment of the British people and no longer criminalize anyone who chooses not to wear a mask”.
The Health Secretary, Sajid Javid, had also declared that the government is planning for a post-pandemic period when it can “treat COVID-19 more like the flu.”
The Prime Minister had also stated: “There will soon come a time when we can remove the legal requirement to self-isolate altogether, just as we don’t place legal obligations on people to isolate if they have flu.”
The comparison of coronavirus to flu exposes that countries of the world have been deceived and misled in the past two years with false information of the covid pandemic.
It was gathered that  the Republic of Ireland “is scrapping almost all of its COVID restrictions, including forcing bars and restaurants to close early and capacity restrictions on indoor entertainment venues.”
The government has indicated that “mask requirements on Irish public transportation and shopping centers will be lifted next month.”
Prime Minister of Ireland, Michaell Martin, had stated: “Maybe the number of seriously ill people is well below the previous peak because Omicron is not as serious.”
It was gathered that in Wales, “more restrictions to people’s daily lives have been eased.”
The government of Wales has lifted restrictions on pubs, restaurants and scrapped all limits on sporting events.
The Welsh government also approved that from January 28, nightclubs can reopen and “the rule of six,” or social distancing, will no longer be enforced.
Also, in Norway, the government is scrapping strict traveler quarantine rules that applied to all travelers entering the country.
Germany, Canada, and some other countries have become theaters of mass protest of the vaccine mandate.
The sudden relaxation of covid restrictions is coming at a time that covid vaccines have been killing more people than the virus.
 
Share this on WhatsApp