Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveEpe youths urge lawmakers to improve on infrastructural projects in the community.
Some youths in Epe town in Lagos State on Sunday urged the lawmaker representing Epe Constituency 1, Mr Abiodun Tobun, to improve on the infrastructural projects and other amenities in the ancient community.
They also demanded good governance and commended him for some of the projects he had executed.
Some of the youths, however, told the Newsmen in separate interviews that the lawmaker needed to do more.
They said that like “Oliver Twist” they are asking for more assistance.
Mr Moruf Ajisefini, All Progressives Congress (APC) leader in Epe, urged Tobun to scale up his efforts in ensuring good governance in his constituency and also quality representation.
He said what the people wanted were numerous and efforts should be geared towards meeting some of the vital demands of the constituents.
Ajisefini, however, commended the lawmaker for a job well done in developing the community via intervention programmes.
He said, “The lawmaker has done extremely well for the people of Epe and the community but as ” Oliver Twist” the people still crave for more government presence in the ancient community, ” he said.
Mr Bode Ogunniyi, a youth leader in the town, urged the lawmaker to use his good offices to help youths in empowerment and capacity building.
He praised the lawmaker for the installation of solar street lights and boreholes across the community but said the youth wanted direct benefits.
Ogunniyi listed some of the direct benefits the youths wanted to include empowering them with technical and vocational skills, sponsoring football competitions and granting scholarships to youths.
Others are instituting agricultural and health schemes, providing technical and vocational equipment for the youth and setting up viewing centres.
He said that all the aforementioned would keep the youth busy and enable them to live decently.
Again, Mr Gbenle Taofiq, a grassroots youth leader, lauded the giant strides of the lawmaker in giving the constituency quality representation.
He said lawmaker had surpassed the achievements of his predecessors.
“I must commend him for such for such gigantic successes recorded so far, ” he said.
He said some of his achievements included the repair of more than 10 bad roads, installation of street lights and boreholes, providing educational support and sponsoring bills in the assembly.
Others were the donation of vocational equipment and giving financial support to the indigenes.
Another youth in Epe, Joseph Oluwo, urged the lawmaker to do more for the constituency.
“The lawmaker should not be distracted by people’s commendations or condemnations.
He should be focused and continue to give the people quality representation,” he said.
Oluwo appealed to the youths to shun violence before, during and after the forthcoming elections and ensure they maintained peace during and after the campaigns.
Share this on WhatsApp