Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
President Muhammad Buhari on Tuesday announced the appointment of renowned Economist, Lecturer and Consultant, a Senior Fellow/Associate Professor and full-time member of the faculty at the Lagos Business School (LBS), Pan-Atlantic University, Doyin Salami as his Chief Economic Adviser.
Doyin Salami, up till now is the Chairman of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC).
A 1989 doctorate degree graduate in Economics of Queen Mary College, University of London, Doyin Salami, 59, is Managing Director and Head Markets Practice at KAINOS Edge Consulting Limited, and member of the Adjunct Faculty at the Lagos Business School (LBS), Pan-Atlantic University, where he recently attained the rank of Senior Fellow/Associate Professor.
READ ALSO: Buhari sacks Osinbajo, others on Economic Team; includes Salami, ex-CBN gov in fresh appointment
From lecturing at the University of Lagos, Adedoyin has built a career in consulting, establishing the research firm Edward Kingston Associates in 1997, which he merged with Soft skills in 2014 to form Kainos Edge.
Before he joined the LBS, Adedoyin was Managing Partner of Edward Kingston Associates, a firm of Economics Consultants, where he led a team to build a Macroeconomic Model of the Nigerian economy.
His other consulting activities include assignments for the Coca-Cola Nigeria and Equatorial Africa (CCNEAL), Department for International Development (DFID), World Bank, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and serving as Peer Reviewer for the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) review of its Nigeria strategy.
His involvement with Public Policy Making started in 2009 with his appointment by the late President Yar-Adua who appointed him as a member of the Federal Government of Nigeria’s Economic Management Team.
In 2010, he was appointed to the membership of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria and retired from the MPC in 2017 after completing 2 terms.
Adedoyin also served as Vice-Chair (under the leadership of Alhaji Ahmed Joda) of the Transition Committee for President Muhammadu Buhari.
READ ALSO: Why Buhari signed 2022 budget into law despite alterations – Presidential spokesman
He is also member of the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Advisory Group for Sub-Saharan Africa (AGSA), and a member of the Board of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) and had the privilege of being Co-Chair of the Central Organizing Committee for the Nigerian Economic Summit in 2009.
The Chief Economic Adviser to the President is expected to address all issues on the domestic economy and present views on them to the President; closely monitor national and international developments, trends and develop appropriate policy responses; develop and recommend to the President national economic policies to foster macro-economic stability, promote growth, create jobs, and eradicate poverty, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp