Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A 35 years old man, Eluyera Wasiu has been arrested by men of Ogun state police command for planning with one Adeniyi Samuel to kill his 29 years old pregnant wife.
The suspect and his accomplice were arrested following a distress call received by the Divisional Police Officer of Ogijo divisional headquarters, CSP Muhammed Baba from concerned members of the public on New Year’s Day.
The DPO was said to have subsequently detailed his men to the scene where the two suspects were promptly arrested.
According to the spokesman of the Command, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, it was during interrogation to know the cause of the fight that Adeniyi Samuel opened up and informed the police that Eluyera Wasiu contracted him to kill his pregnant wife, one Bola Taiwo.
He stated further that Eluyera Wasiu promised to give him #10,000 for the job, out of which he had already given him #5,000, to pay the balance on completion of the job.
Preliminary investigation revealed that Wasiu Eluyera was married to Bola Taiwo but they got separated due to irreconcilable differences. Wasiu later got married to another woman who is presently living with him.
READ ALSO: How we crushed cultism, others in Lagos – Police Commissioner
“But somehow, he met with his former wife and they started going out together again which resulted in pregnancy. In order not to upset his new wife, Wasiu asked Bola Taiwo to terminate the pregnancy, a suggestion that was rejected by Bola Taiwo.
“In his confessional statement, he stated that he had twice bought food for her from one eatery and laced the food with poison, but the lady by providence did not eat the food. It was when all his personal efforts to kill her failed that he contracted Adeniyi Taiwo to help him eliminate her. He confessed further that he personally took Adeniyi to the woman’s house, and he gave him her picture for easy identification.
“But when he didn’t carry out the assignment as agreed, he demanded for the refund of the advance payment he made to him, and his refusal led to the fight which eventually led to their arrest.
Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Lanre Bankole, has ordered a full scale investigation of the case with the view to arraign the suspect in court as soon as investigation is concluded.
Share this on WhatsApp