Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Stanbic IBTC Bank, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, has introduced a Smart Loan digital solution to enable customers who have an account with their Asset Management arm access a loan to enable them meet their medium-term financial obligations.
According to the bank, the devaluation of the naira due to the global economic downturn has reduced disposable income as more naira is required to maintain the current level of expenditure and consumption.
It stated that the Smart Loan, a digital, paperless loan facility will come in handy for many Nigerians, especially those in dire need. The solution will support Nigerians by giving them access to funds while also contributing to economic growth.
READ ALSO: Stanbic IBTC reiterates commitment to sustainable digital finance
The Smart Loan digital facility is available to customers with a mutual fund investment with Stanbic IBTC Asset Management. This enables them to access the instant and quick paperless loan facility of up to N10 million. The lending solution empowers them to meet their financial needs while also maintaining a healthy cash flow.
Oladele Sotubo, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, said, “The Smart Loan product is designed to help provide our customers with the necessary financial support of up to N10 million to meet their medium-term financial responsibility, while also positioning them on a path to long-term financial stability. We understand the need for constant cash flow and its relevance to our livelihoods and households.”
READ ALSO: Tax debt: Niger State orders closure of Union Bank, Stanbic IBTC, others
Bunmi Dayo-Olagunju, Head, Client Solutions, also said Stanbic IBTC Holdings will continue developing innovative financial solutions to enable customers to achieve stable financial freedom through simple and quick banking solutions accessible to them at their convenience. We are delighted that we can further serve our customers in positive ways that improve their finances through our arrays of financial products.”
Bunmi also stated that the firm is committed to leveraging technology to help accelerate economic development and improve the standard of living amongst its customers.
Share this on WhatsApp