Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFive convicted fraudsters to return $4,641 to victims who they defrauded.
The Ibadan Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Monday, January 10, 2022, convicted five fraudsters of cyber fraud and has ordered them to return a total of $4,641 to their victims before Justice Ayokunle Rotimi-Balogun of Ogun State High Court, Abeokuta.
According to a statement released by Wilson Uwujaren, spokesperson of the antigraft agency, the convicts are Opeyemi Oluwaseun Ayede (a.k.a Mary Mark, Nicolette Shea), Taiwo Adeniyi Onasanya (a.k.a Fred Howard), Winner Chuks Olubor(a.k.a Tracy Richards), Sodiq Olamide Ganiu(a.k.a Rosemary) and Adebowale Taofeek Jimoh(a.k.a Schulist Carleen).
Uwujaren said they were convicted and sentenced to four months imprisonment each, for the offense of obtaining money under false pretenses, contrary to section 419 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun State,2000. The court also ordered the convicts to restitute their victims.
”Ayede is to restitute the total sum of $1,000USD (One Thousand United States Dollars) to his victim, Robert Smith through the Federal Government of Nigeria. He equally forfeits one iPhone 12 Pro Max mobile phone and a Lexus RX350 to the Federal Government of Nigeria, being proceeds of crime.
Onasanya was ordered to restitute his victims – Hannah Pane, Mr. Roland, and Carolyn Donna the sum of $2,000USD(Two Thousand United States Dollars) and forfeit one iPhone XR and a Toyota Corolla 2012 model salon car to the Federal Government of Nigeria.
Similarly, Olubor is to restitute his victim the sums of $591USD (Five Hundred and Ninety One United States Dollars) He was equally ordered to forfeit to the Federal Government of Nigeria, one iPhone 11 Pro Max and one Black Wrist iwatch series 3.
Ganiu is to pay the sum of $50USD (Fifty United States Dollars) to his victims, while Adebowale will return the sum of $1,000USD (One Thousand United States Dollars) to his victims-Donnie Wortham and Ossie Savaria.” Uwujaren said.
Share this on WhatsApp