Activists from Doctors Without Borders protest vaccine pricing policies in front of the Pfizer World Headquarters in New York NY,  Thursday, April 22, 2015. Pfizer refuses to publish the price of the pnuemococcal vaccine, preventing developing countries from negotiating a fair price for the drug.
Photograph: Victor J. Blue
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A group of world-renowned doctors and medical experts have said the calculated suppression by governments through mainstream media on the use of hydroxychloroquine, or HCQ as an effective treatment for COVID-19 is the biggest fraud of all time sponsored by big pharmaceutical companies.
The experts disclosed this at a panel discussion on U.S poor response to the global pandemic, the capture of U.S. health agencies by pharmaceutical companies, suppression of scientific data, and vilification of doctors who seek to treat patients with inexpensive and effective repurposed drugs.
One of the experts, Dr. Harvey Risch, professor of epidemiology in the Department of Epidemiology and Public Health at the Yale School of Public Health and Yale School of Medicine, said early use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) dramatically reduces the risk of hospitalization and mortality, but the media covered it up and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority used Emergency Use Authorization regulations to block HCQ in outpatients, except in randomized trials — trials that were eventually cut off over the fears spread by a fake paper.
READ ALSO: All vaccinated should be isolated, former WHO VP warns
Risch said the FDA “mounted its biggest fraud of all time” by issuing a warning against using HCQ in COVID patients outside the hospital setting based on information relating to the treatment of hospitalized patients. COVID in hospitalized patients is a “completely different illness treated with completely different drugs,” he said.
“We heard at the beginning of the pandemic that one of the medications that has been used in early treatment, hydroxychloroquine, or HCQ, was a game-changer and would be effective in the treatment of COVID outpatients if started within the first few days of the illness, and then we heard study after study and media report after media report saying HCQ doesn’t work.
Dr. Aaron Kheriaty, chief of ethics at the Unity Project and former director of the medical ethics program at the University of California, Irvine Health, said the belief that one should get “vaccinated to protect their neighbor” fell apart when it was discovered vaccines did not prevent infection or transmission of the virus while natural immunity — the best way out of the pandemic — has been ignored.
READ ALSO: Boris Johnson reconsiders compulsory COVID jabs for NHS workers
He said thousands of physicians, including himself, have lost their jobs for refusing to get vaccinated with a novel COVID vaccine whose safety and efficacy data remains hidden.
“Medical boards are behaving very irresponsibly doing the bidding of governors who want to impose certain mandates, in this case, face mask mandates and vaccine mandates, they’re not serving the public good and in this case, they’re certainly not serving the interests of patients,” Kheriaty said.
Dr. Pierre Kory, pulmonary and critical care specialist and president and chief medical officer of the Front-Line Covid-19 Critical Care Alliance, called out the policies of U.S. health systems and their “failed response to this pandemic.”
“Some of the policies are “so obscene, absurd, illogical and nonscientific that they’re unscientific that they’re almost unspeakable — things like not testing the vaccinated, not recommending vitamin D, not checking vitamin D levels, things that are so fundamentally basic about science and medicine and that they’ve avoided.
“If you look at these failed policies, there’s only one way to understand them. They are literally written by pharmaceutical companies. Almost every single policy serves the interest of a pharmaceutical company.”
READ ALSO: French teachers protest against COVID-19 incoherent policy for schools
Kory said there have been numerous successes outside the U.S. using a number of compounds he and his colleagues have identified for effective early treatment of COVID, almost all of which are repurposed or generic drugs, including ivermectin.
Yet, in the U.S., ivermectin is regarded as a horse dewormer, horse paste, and is only used by the illiterate, ignorant or unvaccinated, Kory said.
This “decades-long war on repurposed drugs waged with the ever-pressing goal of protecting the market for novel, patented, obscenely profitable and often barely tested and toxic medications has reached a pinnacle with COVID-19, it’s an absurdity, it’s an obscenity and it’s a crime,” Kory said. “It has to stop.”

Share this on WhatsApp