Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 

The Central Bank of Nigeria has said banks’ customers have the right to escalate their complains to the Director, Consumer Protection Department of the CBN after lodging a complaint, and the bank fails to acknowledge within three days or issue a tracking number, or fails to resolve the complaint within the stipulated timelines.
The CBN in a guide published on its website stated processes for bank customers and others on how and where they can lodge complaints against financial institutions regulated by it.
The financial institutions include commercial banks, microfinance banks, primary mortgage institutions, and discount houses.
READ ALSO: CBN releases GSI framework to check bad loans
The CBN noted that it had earlier issued a circular directing all banks to expand their existing ATM help desks to handle all types of consumer complaints.
“Therefore, if you have a complaint against your bank, you must first report the complaint at the bank/branch where the issue originated and then allow two weeks (it might be less or more in some cases) for the issues to be resolved,” it said.
According to the apex bank, the customer has the right to escalate the complaint to the Director, Consumer Protection Department of the CBN after lodging a complaint, when the bank fails to acknowledge within three days or issue a tracking number, or fails to resolve the complaint within the timelines as stipulated by the Consumer Protection Regulation.
READ ALSO: CBN reduces ATM withdrawal charges, interbank transfers’ fees
The CBN said, “You can only direct your complaints to CPD upon the failure of your bank/financial institution to resolve your complaint within the timeline stipulated by the Consumer Protection Regulation.
“You can contact the CPD through the following channels: Consumer Protection Department, Garki, Abuja. Your letter of complaint should be addressed to the Director, Consumer Protection Department. You can submit your letter at the CBN Head Office or at any of the CBN branches nationwide.”
Share this on WhatsApp