Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The host community of the newly established Karl Kumm University by the Church of Christ in Nation (COCIN), has accused Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State of masterminding the crisis that has stagnated the operations of the University.
Vwang community in Jos South said the perceived intervention of the State Government in the Karl Kumm University crisis from all indications is an obvious ill-fated venture and a visible invitation to disaster.
Speaking to newsmen in Jos Wednesday, President of Vwang Development Association, Mr. Jonah Gworu and the Secretary, Mr. Mathias Pam it will be in the best interest of the State Government to stay of the Karl Kumm University crisis.
Our correspondent reports that Karl Kumm University established in Jos South LGA by the COCIN Church was shut down shortly after it got its operational license in 2021 due to misunderstanding with the host community over the appointment of a Registrar for the institution in line with an MOU signed with them.
Since then, the new university had remained under lock and key without any academic activities while its operational licence had been withdrawn by the NUC
However, during the pro-chancellor’s visit to the Governor last week, Lalong had said he would intervene in the matter and directed the Commissioner for Higher Education and the Head of Service to immediately engage all stakeholders in resolving the misunderstanding that led to the suspension of the licence of the University.
Responding to the visit of the Pro Chancellorr, Mr. Jonah Gworu alleged that the visit is a ploy by the government to take over the running of affairs of the university through the back door.
Gworu said the State Government can create all the enabling environment and encourage COCIN and it’s host Community to resolve their differences by implementing the condition of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) adding that COCIN came to Vwang Community to demand for land to build Karl Kumm University and not the Plateau State Government.
“The land where Karl Kum University was built was donated by Vwang Community to COCIN and MoU was signed between the donor and the recipient without the State Government involvement.
“We advise COCIN to immediately set the machinery in motion for the review of the status of the Karl Kumm University in line with global best practices and to continue with the process it has started with the host Community toward resolving the impasse”, Gworu said.
He said he hope that the matter does not get worse, as Vwang community remain resolute on their position that either the COCIN Church honours its obligation as contained in the MoU or the Vwang Community will withdraw it’s earlier donation made to facilitate the take-off of the Karl Kumm University.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp