Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
A close Aide to the late former governor of Oyo state, Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala has revealed how the Ogbomosho top politician died on Wednesday while preparing for his wife’s 70th birthday scheduled for next Saturday.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain died yesterday in his Ogbomoso, Oyo State home at the age of 71.
Alao-Akala became governor of Oyo State from 2007 to 2011, following the impeachment of his principal, Chief Rashidi Ladoja.
According to the Aide, Alao-Akala died in his bathroom upstairs while some people, including his personal workers, were waiting for him downstairs for his first wife, Florence’s 70th birthday slated for Saturday.
READ ALSO: Okowa mourns Alao-Akala
The source said when he arrived from Abuja on Tuesday, he complained of feeling feverish, took a malaria drug and went to bed.
He was said to have attended a wedding last Saturday in Abuja and held political meetings afterwards.
His body was reportedly found in his bathroom around 10 a.m.
A statement by his son, Olamijuwonlo, reads: “With humble acceptance of the will of God, we announce the passing of our grandfather, father, husband and leader, His Excellency, Otunba (Dr.) Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala, JP, psc, which occurred on Wednesday, January 12, 2022.
“Baba died peacefully in Ogbomoso at the age of 71. Omo Iya Alaro will remain in our hearts forever. Rest in peace, Baba. Burial arrangements will be announced by the family at a later date.”
Meanwhile, eminent Nigerians yesterday paid tributes to the departed former governor.
Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa commiserated with the Alao-Akala family, the people and government of Oyo State on the passing of the former governor.
READ ALSO: Adebayo Alao-Akala, former governor of Oyo state is dead
In a condolence message in Asaba, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, the governor described the passing of Alao-Akala as painful and regrettable.
“The late Alao-Akala was a patriot and a political icon whose life-long dedication and indefatigable commitment to serving the people will continue to be remembered.
Similarly, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Wednesday described the former Governor of Oyo State, Late Adebayo Alao-Akala, as a political stabilizer.
He said that the death of Alao-Akala, was a great loss to his family, the people of Oyo State, particularly sons and daughters of Ogbomoso and Nigeria as a whole.
The Oyo state governor, Seyi Makinde also commiserated with the family and have also ordered flags to fly at half-mast across the state.
Share this on WhatsApp