Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
One of the candidates for the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), former Governor George Akume of Benue State, current Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, in mobilizing support for his election at the APC national convention in February, has promised to encourage the autonomy of the various organs of the party to perform their functions towards promoting internal democracy and party discipline.
The Chairman, Contact Committee of Akume’s campaign group, Simon Shango, at a media briefing in Abuja, asserted that “Akume will respect the powers and responsibilities of all organs and officers of the APC, which is necessary to entrench internal democracy and Party discipline.” He stated that as the APC National Chairman, “Akume will be committed to upholding the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Constitution of our great Party, the All Progressives Congress.”
Chairman of the Contact Committee emphasised that all the Party organs, officers and stakeholders need to work in harmony to consolidate the APC position as the dominant and ruling party in Nigeria. he declared: “Senator George Akume’s vision is an APC which will be a model in political Party administration in Nigeria and beyond.”
 
Simon Shango, at the media briefing at Barcelona Hotel, Abuja, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for setting the timetable and date for the APC national convention. The Committee also thanked the party for zoning the national chairman to the north central geopolitical zone.
The committee decried that the members have noticed that lately, George Akume has been subjected to all manners of sponsored press attacks. They expressed the belief that the main reason for such hostilities is because George Akume is the candidate to beat in the contest for the APC National Chairman at the party’s national convention in February 2022. The committee stated that in relative terms and by all accounts, including the views of many APC stakeholders and generality of Nigerians, Akume is clearly the best man for the job.
“Consequently, such press attacks are not surprising, and would not dampen but augment the support of key stakeholders and Nigerians in general,” Simon Shango declared.
The committee disclosed that records show Akume has done a lot for the APC from the time of the merger, adding that he consistently sets his mind towards service to the good people of Nigeria. “Thus, we call on our teeming supporters across the country to remain calm, “as nothing good comes easy”.
“If elected APC National Chairman, Senator George Akume will be committed to upholding the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Constitution of our great Party, the All Progressives Congress,” Simon Shango declared.
Share this on WhatsApp