Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Tuesday, reiterated the commitment of the two chambers of the National Assembly to encouraging transparent, free, and fair elections in Nigeria. Lawan, on the resumption of the National Assembly on Tuesday after the end of the year break, disclosed that the senate is ready to expedite action on the controversial Electoral Act Amendment Bill, disclosing that the senate has made all consultations with the House of Representatives on the observations of President Muhammadu Buhari.
According to Lawan: “As we all know, the Senate and indeed the National Assembly worked so hard on the Bill. Having consulted, the Senate will expeditiously look into the issue.
“Distinguished Colleagues, Political activities leading to 2023 general elections have already started. This Senate should continue to provide the support that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs for successful elections across the country.”
Lawan noted that the Senate suspended deliberations on the reservations of President Muhammadu Buhari on the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill 2021 in December 2021, to consult with the House of Representatives and their respective constituents.
Senate President Lawan also disclosed that the federal lawmakers are still handling the review of the 1999 Constitution, saying the report will soon be made public.
Last year, the National Assembly had opened a two-day National Public Hearing on the review of the 1999 Constitution.
Lawan emphasized that the senate is collaborating with the House of Representatives on the review and amendment of the constitution, adding that their resolutions would be transmitted to the Houses of Assembly of the 36 States for ratification before the end pf the first quarter of 2022.
According to Senate President Lawan: “The review of the 1999 Constitution is a major plank of our Legislature Agenda. Our Committee on Review of the 1999 Constitution has done so much work so far.
“Working with their counterparts in the House of Representatives, the report of the Committee will be presented to the Senate for consideration soon.”
The senate president remarked that political activities towards the 2023 general elections have begun; assuring that the Senate’ is committed to supporting the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the successful conduct of elections across the country.
Share this on WhatsApp