Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Australia has come under fire for undermining the science of immunology in restraining Novak Djokovic from issuance of visa for rejecting the COVID vaccine having fully recovered from coronavirus the previous month. Australia is being portrayed to have abandoned immunology which the country so much believes and propounded.
Australia is perceived to have a renowned and glorious history in immunological science; to many, “if there is an immunological “city on the hill,” it was Australia.”
The country has established authorities in immunology, these include Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, the Garvan Institute, the Australian Nobel laureates, as well as founding fathers of immunological science like Sir Macfarlane Burnett, Jacques F.P. Miller and Peter Doherty, and contemporary leaders of immunological science like Jonathan Sprent, Christopher Goodnow, and Jason Cyster, which made Australia the “Mecca of immunological thinking and science”.
The Australian government is perceived to have betrayed its status on immunology, shocking the world with an immunologically ill-informed and authoritarian decisions on coronavirus immunity. Accordingly, Australia threw many immunologists in the world into confusion in the deportation of Novak Djokovic, a world top-ranked long tennis player, out of the country after rejected mandated covid vaccine that have been detected to be harmful in many countries, which he also did not need.
An immunologist argued that he knew with definitive certainty that Djokovic, having “recovered from covid infection in December 2021, has quite powerful and robust acquired natural immunity to COVID, equivalent, if not more powerful, than that attained from full vaccination and boosters.”
The Immunologist maintained that “the recently COVID-recovered Djokovic posed almost zero risk to himself or anyone in Australia;” berating Australia, known for liberal western democratic government, for “condescending into terrible authoritarianism, irrationally and unethically excluding an international champion from one of tennis’ most prestigious events — the Australian Open. How deplorable!”
It was further argued that “any immunologist worth his or her salt knows the most unusual aspect of the global COVID vaccine campaign is that the vaccine is being deployed on a mass scale in the midst of a pandemic outbreak, when many are already infected — either recently or at the time of their vaccination.”
The immunologist declared: “this indiscriminate public health campaign is dangerous.
“Not only does it expose many millions of already immune people to the risk of unnecessary medical treatment, but it also poses a serious risk of harm to recently infected or convalescent persons, in whom viral antigenic epitopes still persist, and in whom an unnecessary vaccination could induce a hyper-inflation response.”
The immunologist declared that “scientific discipline of immunology is being corrupted and abused by governments around the world so they can impose draconian mass mandates upon millions of persons with acquired “natural” or “hybrid” immunity.” The immunologist decried that it has been frankly disappointing and shocking that prominent immunologists, especially the contemporary Australian pioneers in immunology, are either unaware of or silent about the above compendium.
The immunologist chided giants of the world of immunology from Australia, denoted the birthplace of modern immunology, who are silent on mandated vaccination of the already well immune and recently infected persons.
“Djokovic’s irrational and unethical deportation from Australia is a stain on the reputation of the many prominent Aussie immunologists and storied immunological institutes in that country.
“The government override of the principles of immunological science and medical ethics, in order to achieve population-level compliance, while the western heroes of immunological science stay silent spells disaster for the integrity of western civilizations and self-governing democracies.
“Shame on the Australian government for irrationally deporting Djokovic. And woe onto those prominent expert Australians and Aussie institutions, who actually know better but have chosen not to speak up for the sake of political expediency or personal comfort.
“It is, indeed, easier not to rock the boat and not to speak up, than it is to stand in the way of unethical authoritarian conduct by a powerful democratic government gone astray.
“But that slope is a slippery one and we are all sliding down it. All it takes for a great evil to take hold is for a few good men to remain silent and not speak their truth,” the immunologist declared.
 
Share this on WhatsApp