Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday renewed his promise to complete two major federal roads under construction in the southwest, the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, and the Sagamu-Benin Expressway before the end of 2022. The President, commissioning five projects in Ogun State during his official visit to Ogun State on Thursday, commended Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State for his visionary and trail-blazing projects at a time of challenging circumstances by the COVID-19 pandemic.
President Buhari in a statement by his Adviser on Special Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, noted that Governor Abiodun is a good example of “promises made, promises kept”, describing the Ogun governor as “performing Governor of Nigeria’s Gateway State.”
The President acknowledged that the several projects which include the Gateway City Gate; the 42-Kilometre Sagamu Interchange-Abeokuta Road; the 14km Ijebu-Ode-Epe Expressway and two Housing Estates for low, medium, and high-income earners at Kobape and Oke-Mosan in Abeokuta, were made possible by the huge investment made by the governor and his commitment to security of lives and property in the state.
According to President Buhari: “This has made Ogun State one of the safest and most peaceful States in the country and investors’ destination of choice.
“You have justified the mandate of the people of Ogun State. You have represented our Party very well.”
The President also declared: “Just across the road is the 42-kilometer Sagamu-Interchange-Abeokuta Road which the state government has reconstructed and equipped with streetlights.
“That road enjoys a direct linkage with the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway that the Federal Government is rebuilding and due for completion later this year.
“I am particularly impressed by the quality and standard of your road projects, and the creative way you have deployed resources to reconstruct and rehabilitate them.
“It is significant to note that the two road projects being commissioned today are federal roads. This is an example of constructive engagement, cooperation and collaboration between the States and Federal Government.
“These roads also fit well into our rail transportation master plan that connects Lagos, Nigeria’s economic capital to Kano, with Ogun State having more rail stations, along the Lagos-Ibadan rail corridor.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp