Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePoliceman arrested for assaulting lady who turned down his advances.
The police command in Rivers State have arrested an officer in its command, Eze Akpoelu, for allegedly attacking and injuring a lady, Jane Amos, after she reportedly turned down his advances and  ‘declined his request for a relationship.’
According to reports, Akpoelu allegedly attacked Amos in their compound at Rumuokwuta, in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state, on Wednesday, January 19, leaving her with severe burn wounds.
The victim who is currently on admission at a hospital in the state, said on the morning of the incident, she was to bath her niece in the bathroom they all shared when she noticed the officer was having his bath and decided to bath her niece who was going to school outside.
Jane said shortly after, the policeman stormed out of the bathroom and came to her, accusing her of flouting his order that no one should pour water outside. She said her refusal to respond to his rant got him angry and he called her stupid and accused her of not having respect for her elders. She claimed the officer has remained hostile towards her after she turned down his advances.
“After I finished bathing my niece and went inside, he started saying that I was talking to him and that he would make me bleed. I said if he makes me bleed, God in heaven would also make him bleed.
Later, I came out to put my pot down from the stove because the food I was cooking was almost done. When I opened my door, I saw him by my door. He seized me and held me tight by my neck. He poured what I was cooking away, carried the burning stove and poured it on me.”the victim said.
Neighbors rushed to the scene and rushed her to the hospital where she is currently receiving treatment.
Confirming the incident, the spokesperson of the state police command, Grace Iringe-Koko, said the suspect had been arrested and detained. She added that an investigation has commenced and that the suspect will be punished if found guilty.
Share this on WhatsApp