Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveCAN calls for prayers, unity among Christian leaders against insecurity.
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Ondo State chapter on Thursday in Akure said the nations fight against insecurity would be successful only when Nigerians learned to embrace peace, unity and prayers.
Rev. Fr. Anselm Ologunwa, the new state chairman of CAN, said this at a press conference organised by the association to mark the inauguration of its new executive officers in the state.
Ologunwa said that it had become imperatives for all Nigerians to come together and fight the menace of kidnapping, banditry and indiscriminate killing in the country.
“Christ came to redeem us, so we should learn how to really help our society to be a better place for us all.
“We need to put more efforts in our prayers and be conscious of peoples’ moral value so that they can shun any form bigotry and hatred for the betterment of our country,” he said.
Ologunwa, whose tenure would be five years, called on all Christian leaders and the media to support his leadership to lift the association forward in the state.
Dr Ayo Oladapo, the outgoing CAN chairman, who charged every member of the association to support the Ologunwa-led leadership, attributed his success to God.
Oladapo, who also appreciated the state government, denominational leaders, pastors and friends for their support, said he was on ground and available for the body of Christ.
“For now, my efforts and energy will be geared toward provision of psycho-social support to the vulnerable, victims of violence, child abuse and rape, among others.
“My beloved brothers and sisters, leadership is not permanent. There is need for change of baton from time to time in line with the bye law that brought me in.
“To that extent, there is no tenure elongation under whatever guise, either at the state or local government level.
“There must be a change. I appeal to you all to extend hands of fellowship to the new chairman and give him more support than you gave me.
“Pray for him, encourage him, listen and respect him as our new leader in the state,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp