Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Plantains are related to bananas, although they differ significantly from Cavendish bananas, which are widely consumed raw in the United States and Europe. Because of their sweet flavor, Cavendish bananas are frequently referred to as dessert bananas. Plantains are starchier and less sweet than bananas, and they’re normally boiled before being served.
Plantains are commonly referred to as green bananas, but when ripe, they turn yellow and eventually dark. Plantains are grown throughout South and Central America, Africa, and Asia, and are a major food source in these regions. Plantains are becoming more widely available in the United States and Europe as people learn new cooking and eating techniques for this nutrient-dense fruit.
Plantains’ resistant starch has aroused a lot of interest due to its health benefits. A carbohydrate that is resistant to digestion in the small intestine is known as resistant starch. Instead, it goes through the large intestine, fermenting and feeding the “good” gut flora.
In addition, plantain has a number of health benefits, including:
Healthy Digestive System
Plantains are good for your digestive system for two reasons. To begin, the resistant starch acts as a prebiotic, promoting the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestine. Second, plantains contain a significant amount of fiber, which aids digestion.
Controlling Diabetes
For persons with Type 2 diabetes, maintaining glycemic control is a critical aim. This ensures that blood sugar levels do not fall too low or rise too high. Plantains do not boost blood sugar because they do not breakdown in the small intestine. Low glycemic index foods are those that take a long time to digest (GI). A GI of less than 55 is regarded as low. Plantains have a GI in the 40s, making them a healthy meal option for diabetics.
Controlling Blood Pressure
Your initial reaction might be to reach for a banana if you want to enhance your potassium intake. Plantains, on the other hand, have more potassium than their yellower counterparts. Potassium deficiency affects a large number of people. An overabundance of sodium and a shortage of potassium have been related to high blood pressure. Heart attacks, strokes, aneurysms, and a variety of other cardiovascular issues can all be caused by high blood pressure.
Healthy Immune System
Small modifications can have a significant impact on one’s health. For example, only trace levels of some vitamins and minerals are required to sustain a healthy immune system. Plantains are high in vitamin C, B6, and magnesium, which are all essential micronutrients. It’s unclear whether taking these minerals as pills will provide the same amount of protection.


Share this on WhatsApp