Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

An Israeli study shows that natural immunity is 13 times more effective than the COVID vaccines in protecting individuals. “SARS-CoV-2-naïve vaccines had a 13-fold increased risk for breakthrough infection with the Delta variant compared to those previously infected.”
“The increased risk was significant for symptomatic disease as well,” states the Israeli report. There was waning natural immunity identified as well. However, vaccinated individuals had “a 5.96-fold increased risk for breakthrough infection and a 7.13-fold increased risk for symptomatic disease.” There was also a greater risk for COVID-19-related hospitalizations compared to those that were previously infected.
Israel is one of the most vaccinated countries in the world. This summer they experienced a “fourth wave” of the Delta variant of COVID-19 including those who were allegedly “protected” by the vaccine. Israel has over 1.3 million people who got sick from the virus and 8,130 who died.
READ ALSO: Doctors, Scientists expose dangers of COVID-19 vaccines
\This study demonstrated that natural immunity confers longer lasting and stronger protection against infection, symptomatic disease and hospitalization caused by the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2, compared to the BNT162b2 two-dose vaccine-induced immunity,” said the Israeli study. “Individuals who were both previously infected with SARS-CoV-2 and given a single dose of the vaccine gained additional protection against the Delta variant.”
The Israeli study period was March 1, 2020 to August 14, 2021. They used a database of Maccabi Healthcare Services (MHS), Israel’s second largest Health Maintenance Organization.
It is a 2.5-million-member, state-mandated, non-for-profit, second largest health fund in Israel, which covers 26 percent of the population and provides a representative sample of the Israeli population..
Overall, 673,676 MHS members 16 years and older were eligible for the study group of fully vaccinated SARS-CoV-2-naïve individuals; 62,883 were eligible for the study group of unvaccinated previously infected individuals and 42,099 individuals were eligible for the study group of previously infected and single-dose vaccines.
Dr. Marty Makary, a professor at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and editor in chief of MedPage Today, argues that mandating vaccines for “every living, walking American” is, as of now, not well-supported by science.
READ ALSO:Research on COVID-19 origin: Leaked emails expose hidden secrets on Safety Protocols at Wuhan Lab
“Some people already have ‘natural immunity’ – that is, immunity from prior COVID infection,” he said in August. “During every month of this pandemic, I’ve had debates with other public researchers about the effectiveness and durability of natural immunity. I’ve been told that natural immunity could fall off a cliff, rendering people susceptible to infection.
“But here we are now, over a year and a half into the clinical experience of observing patients who were infected, and natural immunity is effective and going strong. And that’s because with natural immunity, the body develops antibodies to the entire surface of the virus, not just a spike protein constructed from a vaccine.
“The power of natural immunity was recently affirmed in an Israeli study, which found a 6.7 times greater level of protection among those with natural immunity vs. those with vaccinated immunity,” he said.
In September, Makary shared that there are more than 15 studies that have demonstrated the power of immunity acquired by previously having the virus. He referenced Israel “found that those who had experienced prior infections were 27 times less likely to get a second symptomatic COVID infection than those who were vaccinated.”

Share this on WhatsApp