Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Since its founding in Nigeria in 1999, the Supreme Court has played a role in securing the future of some governors after the INEC’s Independent Electoral Commission concluded its work.
Even though it is the constitution that allows INEC to announce a winner, it is the Supreme Court that has the final say in determining the winner.
Here is a list of governors who have been sent off from the public house as a result of the Supreme Court ruling.
1. Celestial Omehia replaced by Rotimi
Amaechi Omehia ruled Rivers State for five months before being replaced by Rotimi Amaechi by the Supreme Court. The court said Amaechi had won the party’s PDP primary ticket but Omehia won the ticket.
2. Chris Ngige replaced by Peter Obi
Ngige ruled Anambra State for two years before the Supreme Court declared Peter Obi a legitimate governor in the 2003 elections.
3. Andy Ubah replaced by Peter Obi
Father of the party has 17 days in gubernatorial the Anambra State in 2007. The court took the seat offered to Peter Obi.
4. Oserheimen Osunbor pushed by Adams Oshiomhole
Osunbor of PDP has stepped down after 10 months in office in Edo state governor. He was succeeded by Adams Oshiomhole of the old AC party.
5. Olusegun Oni replaced by Kayode Fayemi
Oni of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spent two years in Ekiti State seat before the AC court handed him over to Kayode Fayemi of AC in 2010.
6. Olagunsoye Oyinlola by Rauf Aregbesola
In 2010, Oyinola of the Peoples Democratic Party resigned as state governor after the Supreme Court declared Rauf Aregbesola a genuine governor.
7. Mukhtar Idris replaced by Bello Matawalle
Mukhtar Idris won the 2019 election in Zamfara State but was replaced by Bello Matawalle after it was found that there was no presidential election in the state.
View pictures in App save up to 80% data.
8. Emeka Ihedioha replaced by Hope Uzodinma
After 8 months in office, the Supreme Court overturned Ihedioha’s seat in Imo State and handed over to APC’s Hope Uzodinma.
9. David Lyon adapted by Duoye Diri
David Lyon won the gubernatorial seat under the All Progressive Congress (APC), but his vice-presidential papers lost control of the PDP to Duoye Diri.


Share this on WhatsApp