Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Senator representing Plateau North at the National Assembly, Sen. Istifanus Gyang, has lamented the spat of displacement of people from their ancestral homes due to insecurity that have ravaged the State.
Sen. Gyang who is also the Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Defense, said if not for the intervention of God, the nation would have been destroyed by banditry, kidnapping, incessant killings of innocent people by Fulani herdsmen and the likes of them.
The Senator stated this at the weekend, while distributing relief materials to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) scattered within his senatorial district.
The relief materials supplied by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), was influenced by Sen. Gyang who’s senatorial district has suffered wanton loss in the hands of Fulani herdsmen.
Miango Community in Bassa Local Government Area of the State which has come under sever attacks in the last one year, and are now refugees in IDP camps, are one of the beneficiaries, the Senator said.
“My constituency has been visited by devastating acts of terror attacks that have caused the displacement of communities, most of whom have been uprooted from their ancestral homes and are in displacement camps.
“The Nation is grappling with the quest to overcome the challenges of insecurity, terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, if not for God the country could have been totally destroyed by now.
”As part of the efforts to address the humanitarian crises and challenges which the internally displaced persons are facing, I have made several visits to NEMA and today they have responded with these relief materials that were presented to the IDPs”, Sen. Gyang said.
Earlier, NEMA while confirming the relief materials said the criminal destruction of crops on several farms covering hectares of land in LGAs of Barkin Ladi, Riyom and Irigwe Chiefdom in Bassa, all in Plateau North Senitorial district motivated the Agency to respond to Sen. Gyang.
The Director General NEMA, Mr. Ahmed Habib, represented by the Assistant Chief Relief and Rehabilitation Officer NEMA North-Central zone, Mrs Judith Bai, said the items donated are, 500 bags of 10kg rice, 500 bags of 10kg beans, 500 bags of 10kg garri, 150 cartoons of tin tomatoes, 150 kegs of palm oil, 150 cartoons of seasoning cubes, 100 bags of Idozed salt, 200 cartoons of milo, 200 cartoons of powdered milk and 200 bags of granulated sugar.












Share this on WhatsApp