Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A 74-year old woman, Joyce Watkins, who was wrongfully convicted of murdering her great-niece and spent 27 years in prison has been declared innocent of the crime, and subsequently released from jail.
On June 26, 1987, Joyce Watkins and her boyfriend at the time, Charlie Dunn, went to pick up Watkins four-year-old great-niece, Brandi, in Kentucky, according to a report filed with the Davidson County Criminal Court.
Brandi suffered from severe vaginal injury and head trauma. She was pronounced dead the following day, the report stated. The two were with Brandi for only nine hours, but the medical examiner, Dr. Gretel Harlan, concluded the injuries were sustained during that time.
A year later, in August 1988, Watkins, from Tennessee USA, and Dunn were convicted of first-degree murder and aggravated rape.
READ ALSO: There is conspiracy to send me to prison – Sen Kalu cries out
The two spent 27 years behind bars before they were both granted parole in 2015.
Before his release, Dunn, unfortunately, passed away in jail.
Charlie Dunn was waiting for his parole hearing in 2015 when he suddenly passed away in jail.
Prior to Brandi being picked up by the couple, she was living at the home of Rose Williams, Brandi’s great-aunt. Brandi’s mother was in Georgia at the time.
Throughout that period, a Kentucky Department of Social Services worker visited the home after receiving a report Brandi had been abused.
Williams explained Brandi’s injuries Brandi were due to a playground mishap, and the investigation was closed.
Now 35 years later, Watkins has been exonerated after she made it a point to clear her name. Dunn was also cleared of the crime and posthumously exonerated.
READ ALSO: Nigerian nurse jailed for sexually abusing patients in US
His daughter, Jackie Dunn, was at the hearing on Wednesday. “I wish my daddy was here to witness this day,” she said. “He knew he was innocent, he knew he did not commit those crimes,” Dunn said to CNN affiliate WTVF.
Watkins got help from the Tennessee Innocence Project and the Davidson County District Attorney’s Office.
“We got this case because she (Joyce) came to us,” Jason Gichner, senior legal counsel with the Tennessee Innocence Project told CNN. “She just showed up at the office and said, ‘Let me tell you my story. I need your help.’ “
The report was filed on November 10, 2021, asking that the pair’s convictions be vacated.
Joyce Watkins spent 27 years in jail and was released on parole in 2015.
The ruling noted Harlan conceded the error in her methodology years after the trial.
READ ALSO: N2.4bn debt: Supreme Court reverses decision on GTBank’s appeal
“Joyce Watkins and Charlie Dunn are innocent,” District Attorney Glenn Funk told CNN, “We cannot give Ms. Watkins or Mr. Dunn their lost years but we can restore their dignity; we can restore their names. Their innocence demands it.”
According to Sunny Eaton with the District Attorney’s Office, Watkins is the first black woman to ever be exonerated in the state and only the third woman in Tennessee history.
“Miss Watkins, this charge against you is dismissed,” Davidson County Criminal Court Judge, Angelita Blackshear Dalton, said Wednesday morning, according to WTVF.

Share this on WhatsApp