Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveNGO hails National Assembly for supporting NYSC Trust Fund Bill.
The Save Humanity Advocacy Centre (SHAC), a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO), has applauded members of the National Assembly for giving overwhelming support to the Bill seeking to established a National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) Trust Fund.
The National Daily reports that the bill which was sponsored by Rep. Samuel Akinfolarin(APC-Ondo) passed the first reading at the House of Representatives on Thursday after initially scaling through the first on Dec. 16, 2021.
In a statement signed by SHAC Executive Director, Joyce Ogwu, on Sunday, the NGO expressed satisfaction with the attention the Bill is receiving.
”This proof that the legislators are concerned about the state of unemployment in the country.
”By this action, it shows that the parliament will do anything possible to support credible initiatives to put the interest of the youths forward at all times,” she said.
The proposed Fund, she said, is expected to provide sustainable source of funds for NYSC, skill acquisition training and provision of start-up capital to corps members, train and retrain the personnel of the NYSC, develop camps and NYSC formations and provide facilities therein.
“It would also improve the general welfare of corps members and personnel of the scheme and enhance their preparedness to effectively discharge their statutory duties of promoting national unity, integration, self-reliance and accelerated development of the national economy.
“The proposed law would, therefore, provide a legal framework for management and control of the special intervention fund established under Section III of the Act,” she said.
Ogwu said that the institutional funding agency under the auspices of the NYSC will rapidly produce hundreds of thousands of skilled youthful manpower who will also be empowered economically to generate wealth and create employment opportunities.
She called for a speedy and seamless legislative process on the Bill by the parliament to enable the Executive to sign it into law.
Ogwu urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assent the Bill as soon it is transmitted by the National Assembly.
Share this on WhatsApp