Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde has directed that flags fly at half-mast in honour of late governor of the state, Chief Christopher Alao-Akala who died on Wednesday at the age of 71.
“His Excellency will be remembered for his contributions to the development of Oyo State as Governor, especially for taking infrastructural development to other zones of the state outside Ibadan”, Governor Makinde said.
Also, the Chairman of the Southwest Governors’ Forum and Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu described the death of Alao-Akala, as a personal loss.
Governor Akeredolu, who recalled his relationship with Akala, as a former Governor and later APC chieftain, said he was a dependable friend.
READ ALSO:Alao-Akala, others laud Makinde for remodelling Lekan Salami Stadium
Arakunrin Akeredolu, while noting that the news of Akala’s death came as a rude shock, lamented that the Southwest, especially Oyo State have lost a giant and quintessential politician who was committed to friendship, progress and development of the society till the end.
“The finality of death is a hard reality to deal with. Notwithstanding, it is a puzzle that only God understands.
“More than mere emotional flashes, we reflect on the time and moments we have shared, the struggles we all partook in. Our wins and constant hope together. His death causes a deafening silence in our heart. It is a big blow dealt to us.
“As a former Governor, Akala did his best by contributing immensely to the growth of the pacesetter state. Under his reign, the people witnessed development in all ramifications. He was a man that loved his people.
READ ALSO: Adebayo Alao-Akala, former governor of Oyo state is dead
“Akala was a strong pillar of our great party, the APC, in Oyo State. He played the elderly role by stabilizing the party in the state. His death is a huge loss to the APC.” The Governor said.
“On behalf of my wife, Betty, government and the good people of Ondo State, I commiserate with Chief Akala’s wife, Kemi; his children; and the entire family as well as the government and the people of Oyo State, particularly, Ogbomoso. May God Almighty grant him eternal peace” Governor Akeredolu said.
Share this on WhatsApp