Delta Commissioner for Youth Development, Comrade Ifeanyi Egwunyenga, and rep of Governor Okowa(left) presenting starter packs to one of the beneficiaries of Delta State Information and Communication Technology Youth Empowerment Programme (ICT-YEP).
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Delta Government on Monday presented starter packs to 593 youths trained on its Information and Communications Technology – Youth Empowerment Programme, ICT-YEP with a call on the beneficiaries to make good use of the opportunity to launch themselves into the technology world.
Speaking during the closing ceremony of the first phase of the (ICT-YEP) for Delta North graduates at Government House, Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the opportunity provided to become self-sufficient in business and entrepreneurship.
Represented by the State Commissioner for Youth Development, Comrade Ifeanyi Egwunyenga, the governor said there were lots of opportunities in the ICT world and urged the beneficiaries to maximise the potentials in the technology world.
“I congratulate you for successfully going through the programme, in spite of the hitches. ICT has become the fulcrum around which economies of local, international agencies and even government at all levels revolve.
READ ALSO: God ‘ll enthrone best governor for Delta, says Otuaro
He said well-meaning youths across the globe are deploying ICT to prepare for and access economic opportunities, career counseling, job matching, entrepreneurship and agriculture.
“Economic opportunities are a key pull factor for youth migration as they do so due to the lack of opportunities for employment and personal growth in their homes, communities and countries.
“ICT will help you build and maintain social networks capable of providing access to knowledge and know-how on virtually all meaningful businesses and creativity capable of expanding the frontiers of knowledge by creating noble ways of using the Internet in a much better, secure and faster way.
“While you use the knowledge you have acquired for meaningful engagements with wider society, you should also challenge yourself on how best you can improve on the ICT, as areas of widening the usage are still open,” Okowa said.
Welcoming guests to the event, Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mrs Jennifer Adasen-Efeviroro said the programme was designed to build a community of youths with the right skills to start their own businesses, become self-sufficient entrepreneurs to contribute to the development of Delta in particular and the nation in general.
READ ALSO: How  regret, loss of personal control led bank worker to suicide in Delta
“You will recall that in April 2021 our dear Governor graciously approved the commencement of the ICT-YEP as part of his strategic plan to make technology innovation the building block of a future stronger Delta.
Also speaking, Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu congratulated the beneficiaries for being part of those selected, adding that the world awaits their exploits as tech entrepreneurs.
“We identify with your zeal to become entrepreneurs and as you collect your starter packs today, I urge you to bring that same zeal in managing what you are given today to grow your business.
“What you are given today are starter packs which means the government is helping you to start off and how you are going to sustain the business depends on your positive mindset,” he added.
Chief Job Creation Officer, Professor Eric Eboh encouraged the beneficiaries to see the empowerment as an opportunity to launch out to the Information and Communications Technology world which he described as the new ‘black gold’.
READ ALSO: Jim Ovia, Elumelu, others to be honoured at Delta state 30th anniversary
He said a total of 6,074 youths have been trained and empowered through the STEP and YAGEP programmes since 2015, adding that the state government was proud of the testimonies from the beneficiaries.
Two beneficiaries Ezeagbor Charles and Chukwudebe Leslie, who responded on behalf of others thanked Governor Okowa for the training and provision of starter packs.
They commended the state government for making their dreams a reality and pledged to leverage on the opportunity provided by the state government to become economically independent.
Share this on WhatsApp