Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

1. Decrease in the level of glucose in the blood
A study with obese adult participants showed that eating mango helped lower blood sugar in these individuals, even without leading to weight loss.
Likewise, other studies indicate that mango helps manage glucose levels in healthy individuals. Therefore, in relation to blood sugar levels, consumption of this fruit can be beneficial in preventing too high a glucose level as well as natural treatment of this problem.
2. Blood pressure management
Since mangoes are high in magnesium and potassium, and contain little sodium, they are effective in lowering blood pressure, the most common cardiovascular disease.
3. Good for brain health
Mangoes are full of vitamin B6, which makes them an excellent food for brain health. Indeed, this vitamin plays an important role in the maintenance of brain functions, and could even improve them: vitamin B6 (and other B vitamins) maintain the proper functioning of neurotransmitters, help in the management of moods and promote good sleep. quality.
4. May protect against age-related macular degeneration
Mango is a source of zeaxanthin, an antioxidant that filters out bad UV rays and thus protects the health and proper function of the eyes. Thus, mangoes could also be used to prevent age-related macular degeneration.
5. Good for bone health
Mangoes contain vitamin K, which is essential for healthy bones because it allows the body to absorb calcium: vitamin K deficiency is linked to a higher risk of bone fractures. In addition, mango also contains calcium, which is necessary for bone formation, and therefore has all the qualities required to ensure healthy bones!
6. Decreased risk of heart disease
Mangoes are a source of pectin, a soluble fiber that naturally helps lower cholesterol levels. Thus, with in addition their qualities to fight against blood pressure, mangoes manage to prevent two of the biggest pathologies linked to heart disease.
7. Cancer prevention
The pectin found in mangoes is not only useful against cholesterol, but also in preventing prostate cancer, along with the beta-carotene they contain. What’s more, studies suggest that this fruit may also be effective against breast cancer.
8. Natural treatment of anemia
Mangoes also contain iron, and may therefore effectively fight iron deficiency and anemia. In addition, the richness in vitamin C of mango makes this fruit very favorable to a better absorption of iron from plant sources.
9. Anti-aging capabilities
Mangoes help slow down the aging process thanks to its vitamins A and C, which help the body to produce collagen. Collagen helps slow skin aging, promotes healthy blood vessels and body tissues.
Likewise, vitamins A and C are antioxidants, which fight the deterioration caused by free radicals and protect the body from the harmful effects of oxidative stress.
10. Supports the immune system
The beta-carotene in mangoes boosts the immune system’s defenses, which is our body’s first barrier against disease and is therefore essential for staying in shape. Likewise, the antioxidants in mangoes are also central to good health.
11. Improved digestion
A study has proven that mango has impressive effects in relieving chronic constipation problems. The participants also had better amounts of essential fatty acids (omega-3 and omega-6) and also showed other signs of better digestive health, such as the production of gastric secretions to aid digestion of food.
These positive results may be due to the high water and fiber content of mango, in addition to its antioxidants.
12. Prevention of asthma
People who eat foods that contain beta-carotene, such as mango, are less likely to develop asthma


Share this on WhatsApp