Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





The elusive wantaway PDP governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, as predicted by political analysts, did not fail to live up to expectations. He refused to attend the PDP governors meeting which was held today in Port Harcourt where the national chairman of the Party, Prof. Ayu, was in attendance.
Godwin Obaseki have been embroiled in several wars including an unnecessary fight with South South PDP governors who are miffed over his renegation of gentlemen agreement he had with PDP stakeholders before he joined the party from APC after he was tossed out.
Although the PDP governors tried to manage truce between him and the PDP major stakeholder in the state, Chief Dan Orbih several times, all efforts proved abortive as the governor was bent on divisiveness and segregation of members of the old PDP he met on ground.
National Daily gathered that the problems between Obaseki and the PDP governors were further compounded when he went against all the agreements they had during the Asaba Declaration, especially on the passage of the Anti-Grazing Bill, which was agreed upon by all the governors.
Obaseki did not only renegade on the agreements reached, he went to Buhari begging for funds to start off the a non-existence livestock project.
The PDP governors could no longer stomach his betrayal after one of his youthful commissioner, Bar. Emwanta, was interviewed on Channels TV pouring obviously Obaseki’s hatched insult on Governor Wike.
Knowing fully well he would be humiliated in Port Harcourt since he had been ostracized from the committee of these South South governors, Obaseki choose to deliberately absent himself from the meeting even when there was an outstanding threat that he should ship out if he does not attend.
Fingers are crossed on the next move of the governor who is hell bent on destroying PDP in Edo State with his penchant for anti-party activities, as well as the reaction of the party for his ill-advised action.


Share this on WhatsApp