Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Ginger is a rhizome plant, originated from the tropical rainforest from the Indian subcontinent to southern Asia. It is one of the world’s most popular and useful plant, which has been used for decades as a spices for flavouring foods and medicinal plants.

In countries like China, has used ginger for 3,000 years because of it’s anti-inflammatory properties added to other herbs for more effectivity.
This rhizome plant is one of the earliest spices grown and exported from Southwest India. India ranks number one in production globally.
Today, it is now cultivated in the U.S, china, the west Indies and other tropical area.
Here, are difference facts about ginger you don’t know.
1. It first became a famous plant after the Spaniards brought it to west Indies and Mexico, soon 1547 gingers was exported from Santiago to Spain.
2. Ginger is a flowering plant whose stem rhizome grows underground. It belongs to the family of tumeric and cardamom called zingi beraceae.
3. Ginger actually is a perennial reed-like plant with annual leaf stems that produces white and pink flowers buds that blooms into yellow flowers.
4. Ginger has a aesthetic appeal and adaptation that comes from it, to warm climates and is offen used as landscaping around subtropical homes.
5. It has high array of important vitamin, minerals and gingerol, an isometric compound that contains potent antioxidant and anti inflammatory properties, which lmproves health.
6. Ginger contains many health benefits, includes DNA breakage, inflammation, reduce hypertension, nausea, migraines and also helps in reducing DNA damage from radiation.
7. Ginger are often used to make herbal tea and wine also as spice added to stew, soups, sauces, porridge, candy, biscuits and bread for flavors.
8. In places like Japan, China and Burma, this seasoning plant are sliced and eaten between meal, cooked as a salad dish and paired with savory meals.
9. Ginger is made into ginger oil, likely to used in perfume production and for medicinal purposes.
10. It are grown in a warmer regions and the tropics.


Share this on WhatsApp