Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 








Till date, all of you have heard and read about the benefits of Turmeric. Although turmeric has been used in Ayurveda since ancient times, there are many disadvantages. Turmeric, however, contains vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, calcium, dietary fibre, sodium, protein, zinc, manganese, potassium, which benefits health in many ways. Turmeric contains very important ingredient curcumin which helps in making it healthy. But if consumed in large quantities, it can also cause damage (Side Effects). Now today we are going to tell you about the damage caused by turmeric.
Side Effects of Turmeric to these People
Appendicitis Patients – Patients with appendicitis (Stones) should always consume turmeric on the advice of their doctor. On the other hand, consumption of turmeric can only aggravate the problem for people who have frequent appendicitis. This will reduce the intake of turmeric as much as possible.
Diabetics – People with diabetes should consume turmeric in limited quantities. In fact, diabetics are given medicines to control blood sugar and dilute blood. Excessive consumption of turmeric can reduce blood levels in the body and damage health.
Turmeric- Turmeric slows down the blood clotting process when the nose bleeds. Because of this, people who have sudden bleeding from the nose or other parts of the body should significantly reduce their consumption of turmeric.
Jaundice patients – People with jaundice should not eat turmeric. Turmeric should be consumed only after the advice of your doctor even after recovering from the disease.
How much turmeric should be consumed in a day – one teaspoon of ground turmeric contains about 170-190 mg of curcumin. It is safe to consume at least 400 mg or more than 800 mg of curcumin in a day. Due to this, 1 to 3 teaspoons of turmeric can be consumed in a day for normal people.






Till date, all of you have heard and read about the benefits of Turmeric. Although turmeric has been used in Ayurveda since ancient times, there are many disadvantages. Turmeric, however, contains vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, calcium, dietary fibre, sodium, protein, zinc, manganese, potassium, which benefits health in many ways. Turmeric contains very important ingredient curcumin which helps in making it healthy. But if consumed in large quantities, it can also cause damage (Side Effects). Now today we are going to tell you about the damage caused by turmeric.








Share this on WhatsApp