Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Controversial Islamic group, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), says the apex Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere is making a great mistake by distancing itself from from the presidential ambition the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Bola Tinubu.
Tinubu is gunning for Nigeria’s presidency in next year’s election. He has been gaining endorsements, but not from key South West organisations like Afenifere and the Yoruba Council of Elders.
MURIC said: “Afenifere is making a great mistake by distancing itself from Tinubu simply because the latter supported President Muhammadu Buhari. Afenifere is playing parochial politics. There is no scintilla of doubt that regional politics is parochial politics.
READ ALSO: Osun APC crisis: MURIC gives 7 days ultimatum to Aregbesola, Oyetola to resolve dispute                                                               
“It is myopic and unpatriotic. A visionary group will extend its horizon. That is what Tinubu has done and his nationalistic mien has earned him nationwide acceptance. You cannot remain locked up in your shell and expect the whole country to embrace you. Afenifere should wise up.
“Afenifere has one or two lessons to learn from the Igbo. Unlike Afenifere’s cold attitude towards the only Yoruba man who has shown interest in the presidency (at least publicly), the Igbo socio-cultural group, the Ohanaeze, has pledged to support two Igbo men (Anyim Pius Anyim and Dave Umahi) who have expressed interest in the presidency with 10 billion naira. That is the spirit.
“We call on Afenifere to sharpen its political instinct. An adage says one good turn deserves another. The Yoruba socio-cultural group should neither reject its best candidate nor remain neutral at a time others are embracing their own.”
MURIC had in the past urged the Nigerian government to treat Boko Haram terrorists as lost brothers. During the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban, MURIC welcomed the move.
On Monday, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) endorsed Tinubu for the presidential run in 2023. MURIC has also solidified the Tinubu campaign with an endorsement.
Share this on WhatsApp