Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAisha Buhari to APC – Put more women in strategic positions in the party.
The First lady of Nigeria. Aisha Buhari, has asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop making empty promises but instead ensure women occupy strategic positions within the party.
Mrs Buhari made the demand at the maiden edition of the APC national women conference which held in Abuja on Tuesday, January 18.
She said the future of Nigeria depends on the potentials of women, adding that the APC must move beyond “paying lip service” to women’s involvement in governance.
“This is the first time the national women conference of the APC is being held to establish our commitment to setting the position of women in matters of national importance, especially in increasing the visibility of women, positioning women for future political offices, and encouraging them to aspire more towards the progress of our great party.
Since 2015, I’ve had the privilege of engaging Nigerian women across the entire country. My conviction is that Nigeria’s future is entirely dependent on actually using the potentials of our women.
It is no mere coincidence that parties that have grown strong, prosperous and influential have prioritised women’s participation in national building.
I therefore wish to call upon the APC to double its efforts in promoting women, which I believe will serve as one of the objectives of this conference.Enough of lip service. We need more women in strategic roles.
As Nigeria races towards another election, we must go beyond paying lip service to putting women in vital offices within our party and the government.
We must put in place workable strategies to ensure that this actually happens; charity begins at home. And so the APC must start by ensuring that women occupying strategic offices within the party have the most strategic roles in government.
When this happens, it will become a lot easier for us to empower the Nigerian women for the much needed leadership politically and economically.”
Share this on WhatsApp