Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to promptly and thoroughly investigate allegations of systemic mismanagement of security votes by state governors since 1999.
SERAP urged Buhari to instruct the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offenses Commission (ICPC) to jointly track and monitor spending of security votes by the 36 state governors.
In the letter dated 1 January 2022 and signed by SERAP deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, the organization said: “The most satisfactory and effective way to demonstrate the oft-repeated commitments to address the insecurity in the country is to promptly and thoroughly probe persistent allegations of corruption in the spending of security votes by state governors.”
READ ALSO: Presidency intimidates SERAP over suits against Buhari, challenges group to declare source of funding
The letter, read in part, “Ending impunity for allegations of corruption in the spending of security votes and recovering any mismanaged public funds are matters of public interest.”
“Probing the spending of security votes and ensuring accountability for any cases of corruption would improve the ability of your government to deliver on the promises to ensure the security of Nigerians, and to keep them safe.”
“As revealed by a recent report by Transparency International (TI), most of the funds appropriated as security votes are spent on political activities, mismanaged or simply stolen. It is estimated that security votes add up to over N241.2 billion every year.”
“Longstanding allegations of corruption and mismanagement of security votes have hugely contributed to the growing insecurity in the country, and the failure of authorities to effectively discharge their constitutional responsibility to ensure the security and welfare of their own people.”
READ ALSO: Endsars Panel Report: SERAP sues Buhari
“Pervasive tendency by public officers to regard or treat security votes given to them for security of the state as their personal entitlement or funds is antithetical to the Nigerian Constitution of 1999 [as amended] and international standards. Security votes should be used for improving the security situation in the states or returned to the public treasury.”
“Successive governments have failed to effectively discharge their primary and constitutional responsibility to protect the lives and property of the Nigerian people. This is patently contrary to Section 14(2)(b) of the Nigerian Constitution, which provides that: ‘the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government’.”
“Against the background of well-documented cases of abduction, killings and ongoing security challenges in several parts of the country, the time has come to end the culture of impunity for allegations of corruption and mismanagement of public funds meant to ensure the security of life and property of Nigerians.”
“While sitting state governors may enjoy immunity from arrest and prosecution, they do not enjoy immunity from investigation. Any allegations of mismanagement of security votes against sitting governors can and should be investigated pending the time they leave office and lose immunity. The findings of such an investigation can also be the basis for initiating impeachment proceedings against any indicted governor.”
Share this on WhatsApp