Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
An American couple has revealed that they discovered they are siblings after 10 years of marriage with two kids.
Their announcement was made on the video-sharing social network site Tik Tok. In the short video, the husband can be seen saying that he and his wife have been together for 14 years and they now have two kids together only to find out recently that they are siblings.
“I met this lady in 2008, we got married in 2011. We had our first child in 2011. We had our second child in 2015. We’ve been married 14 years, we’ve been together for 13. We’ve just recently found out we are brothers and sisters”
No further detail was revealed as to how they made the discovery or their decision after learning the shocking news. However, the video blew up in just 72 hours with thousands of likes and over 7,000 comments.
READ ALSO: Couple in trouble for selling one-month old baby in Ogun
Some internet users were perplexed as to how such a thing could have occurred. They wanted to know if the couple’s families attended the wedding or if they got together for family reunions. Others expressed their sympathies with the couple and worried how they would handle such a surprising discovery.
Others were less forgiving, claiming that by simply glancing at each other, the two should have realized they were connected. Some people questioned why the two were disclosing such a private aspect of their lives to the public, claiming that some things should be kept private.
Unfortunately, couples finding out they are siblings is not as rare as you may think. After a strong seven-year marriage and a six-year-old daughter together, a Brazilian couple found they were brother and sister in 2014.
In 2011, a South African couple who had been together for five years was shocked to hear that they were also brother and sister soon before their wedding.
When the two, who had been raised by single parents, introduced each other to their respective families, they found the startling discovery. They discovered they were actually siblings who had been separated due to their parents’ acrimonious divorce.

Share this on WhatsApp