Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


When two people get married, they become one person. They both went through all the recognized rites and rules in their society and agreed to follow them. Because of the backlash from society, it is also very rare to see a marriage between two people of the same gender, but it can happen.
There are two types of gifts that are called “dowries.” A “dowry” is a gift that is usually given to a bride’s family by the groom or his family to show how grateful they are for their son marrying their daughter. But in some cultures, mostly in Asia and Australia, and in a few isolated communities in Africa, women do pay the groom price (dowry) of the men they want to marry, but not all of them.
In some countries, women pay the dowry of their husbands in order to marry them. We’ll look at a few of these countries and see why these cultures are allowed, even though it might seem weird for people from different cultures to do this.
1. India
First, India is one of the countries that has been practicing this culture for a long time. They have passed it down through the generations to their own children. When a woman is ready to marry her fiance, her parents may ask her to give them a cow or a small car as a dowry.
2. Nepal
The bride is forced to pay the groom’s price because it is thought to be a big part of making their marriage work. It also helps the woman’s character to match up with her husband.
3. KenyaOne of the African countries that used this kind of marriage and dowry payment was Kenya. The bride has to give husband’s father the dowry, either in cash or in kind, on the day of their traditional marriage.
A lot of people also say that it doesn’t mean that the woman has to pay for the money. Most husbands give the money to their wives in private if they don’t have enough to show them.
4. Sri Lanka
It’s not always the same in Sri Lanka. In some cultures, when a woman finds a potential partner, she tells her parents about her plans to get married. As soon as they reach an agreement, the bride’s parents pay the groom’s family a dowry. They set a date for their wedding.
It’s up to you to decide what you think about this kind of marriage. We’ve been debating this for a long time now: should Ghana also adopt this kind of marriage?


Share this on WhatsApp