Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
…As residents commend timely intervention

Governor Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state has invited affected families, residents and other stakeholders over the Magodo Phase 11 land tussle to a meeting in his office at Lagos House, Ikeja today Wednesday, January 5 at 11 am for peaceful resolutions of the crisis.
It would be recalled that armed policemen, who were acting on the instruction of the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, and the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, a fortnight ago had laid a siege in Magodo Phase II Estate following the planned demolition of property in the estate based on a Supreme Court Order.
Some members of a family had come to execute the Supreme Court judgment on the ownership of the land where hundreds of properties were built. The properties were marked with red, brown, and blue inks to inscribe ‘ID/795/88 Possession Taken Today 21/12/21 by Court Order’.
READ ALSO: Magodo Saga: If it was Gov. Wike that the CSP disobeyed, something would have happened to him, Reno says
The siege on Magodo II Estate was resisted by landlords and residents, who protested and trooped out en masse to prevent forceful takeover or demolition of their properties.
Speaking to journalists and estate residents during his visit to Magodo Phase II Estate on Tuesday to assess the situation of things himself, Governor Sanwo-Olu who was accompanied by his cabinet members and the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu, said the matter called for proper deliberation in the interest of peace and therefore implored all parties to stand down until the matter is completely resolved.
The Governor also assured residents of the estate that nobody would be harassed or any property be pulled down pending the outcome of his meeting with all the parties involved.
“We will all go through every line of it and we will come to an amicable resolution. So, I want everyone to please ensure that peace will be restored to the estate. I want all of our citizens to go about their lawful businesses knowing fully well that nobody will be harassed or any property will be trampled upon pending all of these conversations.
Prior to Governor Sanwo-Olu’s address to journalists and residents of the estate, the Governor and his team visited the police station within the estate, he was addressed by one CSP Abimbola Oyewole, who told him that his team had been sent from Abuja to execute the Supreme Court judgment on Magodo Phase 2 properties.
READ ALSO: Magodo Saga: If it was Gov. Wike that the CSP disobeyed, something would have happened to him, Reno says
After the police team leader could not provide the copy of the said judgment as demanded by the governor, Governor Sanwo-Olu ordered the armed policemen to deactivate their operation and leave Lagos in the interest of peace.
“It is a case between the residents of Lagos and the supposed people, not the residents. They have nothing to do with the residents. Please, can you call your superior now in Abuja that the state governor is here standing in front of you and I am the Chief Security Officer and that I want you to leave now and that you have no business in my state that I want you to disengage now?” Governor Sanwo-Olu declared.
Some of the residents who spoke to journalists commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for coming to their rescue and showing leadership in the state by defending them in time of need as the Chief Security Officer of Lagos State.


Share this on WhatsApp