Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Lagos State Government on Sunday listed alternative routes for motorists following the decision to partially close the Marine Bridge from Monday, January 17 to Saturday, April 2, 2022 for routine maintenance works.
The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, who stated this in a statement, explained that the partial closure was to allow the Federal Government to carry out routine maintenance works on the bridge.
He further disclosed that the temporary closure of the bridge is in two sections.
The Apapa outbound will be repaired between 17th January 17 and March 9 2022 while the Apapa inbound section of the bridge is scheduled for March 10 and April 2, 2022.
Highlighting the alternative routes, the Commissioner stated that traffic outbound Apapa will be diverted to give way for contraflow of traffic between RRS point and Total Bridge, adding that motorists using lighter vehicles will be diverted to Marine Beach by Mobil filling station to connect Ijora Bridge or make use of service lane by Leventis, to connect Naval Dockyard to link Total Underbridge to further their journeys.
READ ALSO: Magodo Estate Fiasco: Gov. Sanwo-olu in animal farm situation
For the inbound Apapa motorists during the second phase of the rehabilitation works, Oladeinde explained that traffic inbound Apapa will be diverted to allow contraflow of traffic between Total Bridge and RRS point.
He also added that motorists using lighter vehicles will be allowed to descend towards Total Under Bridge and make use of Fire Service road to connect Marine Beach by Mobil filling station, while those heading towards Apapa will make a detour and connect Area B through NAGAFF using Mobil filling station service lane.
The Commissioner also assured that palliative repair works have been carried out on all the aforementioned alternative routes to ameliorate the effect of Traffic and deployment of Lagos State Traffic Management personnel (LASTMA) to manage the diversion plan.
The statement implored motorists to be patient as the measures taken are aimed at providing quality and safe road infrastructure for everyone.

Share this on WhatsApp