Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Saturday, melted the boundary of party politics, visited Governor ‘Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to commiserate with the governor on the demise of the paramount traditional ruler, the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji; former Governor of Oyo State, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao- Akala and the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade III.
Tinubu at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, observed that the departed traditional rulers, the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade III, and the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogunguniso 1, including for Governor Alao-Akala, would be greatly missed.
The Chief Press Secretary to the Oyo Governor, Taiwo Adisa, in a statement, indicated that Tinubu acknowledged that the reign of the two prominent traditional rulers was peaceful, noting the immense contributions of the two prominent traditional rulers to the peaceful atmosphere of the state.
The statement further indicated that  Tinubu also noted that late Governor Alao-Akala also made significant  contributions to the political development and the love radiating within the political arena in the state.
Tinubu commended Governor Makinde for “demonstrating good character” in the governance of the state.
Tinubu highlighted: “I want to thank you, the governor. It was only last night that I thought of my coming here and we are here today.
“Having lost a former governor of this state, the Olubadan of Ibadanland and Soun of Ogbomoso, it is just for us to go back to the sense of value of people and their lives.
“With this situation, we share in your loss. You, as the governor on the saddle of power, take responsibility for the situation here. I want to say that we thank God Ibadan has been peaceful and not a den of violence but peaceful.
“Every other thing that has happened has taught us in the book of religion that we are just passing through and we will leave one day. But no matter how long, it is difficult to absorb the loss easily.
“Thank you for being accommodating. We gave you a short hour notice and you responded.
“That is a demonstration of a good character, which is rare. People get, sometimes, intoxicated with power and the arrogance of office can be overwhelming, but not with you. Thank you for receiving us so quickly.”
Governor Seyi Makinde acknowledged that Tinubu believes in politics without bitterness. He noted that this is the year political parties will nominate candidates for the 2023 general elections, as such, the visit of Tinubu to Oyo State was significant.
The Oyo Governor said that Tinubu sent a message to him of his visit, adding that he was delighted to host him in Ibadan.
Makinde thanked Tinubu for the visit and wished him well in his political endeavour, including his presidential ambition.
“I want to welcome you to Oyo State. We are really grateful for this visit. This is the year political parties will elect their candidates towards the election that is coming next year. So, what this had demonstrated to us is, you stood for politics without bitterness.
“During this political season, you may have to question yourself on why you need to come to the Government House because people might have another interpretation to it. But you sent a message across to me and I was delighted to host you in Ibadan.
“We lost two traditional rulers almost in quick succession. First, it was Soun of Ogbomoso land, and we were planning for the burial when the Olubadan of Ibadanland also joined his ancestors. We were still in the middle of that when former Governor Akala also died. I can see that in Oyo State, we try to take politics out of what we call ‘omoluabi’.
“We may fight, struggle for political positions but we know power can only come from God and He gives it to whomever He would like to give it to at whatever time.
“We really thank you for this visit and want to let you know that we have taken proper notice that you have risen above politics and all that is going around here to come and share with us at this moment that we are grieving. We say thank you.
“Let me also use this opportunity to wish you well in your political quest to govern this nation. We want the best for this country and only the best is good enough at this particular time.”
Tinubu, former Governor of Lagos State, visited the governor at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, after he had been to the palaces of the Soun of Ogbomoso land, Olubadan of Ibadanland, and residence of the late Governor Alao-Akala, on condolence visits, expressing his sympathy and solidarity.
Share this on WhatsApp