Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It is no longer news that Bola Tinubu, a former Governor of Lagos, and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has officially informed President Buhari about his intentions to succeed him in 2023. Since then, he has continued to visit many of the country’s top politicians, to notify them about his intentions, and to also solicit their support.
Presently, Bola Tinubu is arguably the favourite to secure the APC ticket for the 2023 presidential election. However, not without any form of opposition by other aspirants under the party. With this, it can be argued that despite seeming to be the favourite to clinch the APC nomination, there are chances that things may not go as expected, as other aspirants are equally putting in a lot of work to ensure that they emerge.
What this means is that the APC 2023 presidential ticket, will be keenly contested between the party’s National Leader, and other interested candidates. However, there are chances that the 2023 presidential ambitions of the former Governor of Lagos, could lead to massive defection of the party members ahead of the 2023 general elections.
In my view, this could happen irrespective of who emerges as the party’s 2023 presidential candidate. The reason for this is that, should Bola Tinubu emerge as the party’s flag-bearer for the election, many of those who are not in support of his 2023 ambitions, could dump the party.
At the same time, if he is unable to secure the party’s nomination for the 2023 presidential election, there are chances that he and his supporters, could cut ties with the APC, and seek greener pastures elsewhere. Recall that Tinubu had been a strong pillar of the party since it was formed.
It can be argued that Bola Tinubu’s 2023 presidential ambition, could see the APC hit by massive defection of its members after the primaries. This is due to the likelihood that the outcome of the party’s primaries, may not go down well with all the aspirants vying for the party’s 2023 presidential ticket, including the APC National Leader, if he fails to emerge as the party’s flag-bearer for the 2023 presidential election.


Share this on WhatsApp