Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAsari Dokubo accuses Kanu, of wreaking havoc in the southeast region.
Asari Dokubo, leader of the Niger Delta Peoples Salvation Force (NDPSF) has accused Kanu, of wreaking havoc in the southeast region. He said that southeast residents obey the sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), out of fear of being killed, maimed, or their businesses burnt and destroyed.
Speaking during a Facebook live session on Sunday, January 30, Dokubo accused Nnamdi Kanu, leader of IPOB, of causing the closure of schools and businesses in the south-east, and wreaking havoc in the region.
He said;
“IPOB said Igbo people should not go about their business; they should not go to school. So, if we Igbos no longer go about our business and go to school, what else should we be doing? That’s why all the boys are going into fraud.
“IPOB is worse than a terrorist organization. It is a satanic movement. They tell them to eat the flesh of human beings, and they eat it. If people sit at home, it is that they are afraid of you people. It is not because you people are powerful. They don’t know you people are nothing.
“People are afraid of being killed that’s why they’ve continued to sit at home, not because they love Nnamdi Kanu. Why is there no sit-at-home in Port Harcourt, Calabar, Uyo? It is because the government of these places is saying ‘don’t ever come here.
“Very soon, Igbos will come out and say ‘it is okay; our old women are starving; they can’t go to the farm, markets’. At Onitsha market, people are afraid of doing businesses because they are scared of being killed.”
The former militant leader also denied being involved in the process that led to Kanu’s extradition.
He said;
“I don’t know where Nnamdi Kanu was living. I don’t know where he took off from. They said I was the person who gave him up.
“You accused me of betrayal. I am not a member of your organization. We are enemies. What do enemies do? They fight and kill each other until there’s a platform for reconciliation.”
Share this on WhatsApp