Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
A member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Kassim Afegbua, a former Commissioner for Information, also PDP Member, Ward 5, Awuyemi Okpella, Edo State, has expressed strong opposition to the presidential aspiration of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, challenging his age and his bid for the PDP ticket, while agitating for the zoning of the presidential ticket of the PDP to the south.
Prince Kassim Afegbua in a statement titled: “Atiku and the Age of Methuselah Politics”, emphasised that having concluded the convention of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with a new leadership that looks promising, the Party will have to rise above board to produce a presidential candidate from the southern part of the country to complete the narrative. Afegbua noted that with the abysmal performance of President Muhammadu Buhari on account of age, incompetence and lack of capacity and political will to take deliberate and sustained action to bail out the country from all manner of challenges, “it will be immoral for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to continue to express interest in seeking election in the 2023 presidential election having attained the retirement age.
“He cannot assume the role of a perpetual candidate or professional aspirant year in, year out, of the party as though the party was established for him alone. It defeats all sense of logic for such an old man to attempt another round of political contestation at a time the general feeling and mood in the country supports a younger Nigerian from the southern extraction of the country.”
Afegbua insisted that  Atiku should quit his quest for presidency and support a southern Nigerian candidate in the spirit of fairness, equity and justice, that will assuage the feelings of stakeholders from the southern part of Nigeria. He argued that it will be against the run of play and natural justice for any aspirant of northern extraction to show interest in the 2023 presidential election within the Peoples Democratic Party threshold. “It will offend national sentiments, emotions and logic for anyone from the north to show such interest given our diversities and heterogeneous political configurations.
“Given PDP’s doctrine of political power balancing and fairness, it will be against its own unwritten rule to cede the ticket to any northern aspirant least of all Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,” Afegbua declared.
He protested: “after the 2019 presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar abandoned all of us in Nigeria and sought refuge in far away Dubai, thus, exposing us to the intimidation, harassment and threats posed by the desperate APC’s power oligarchs.
“It was a case of a General abandoning his troops in the battlefield.
“Rather than draw strength from his presence, his absence exposed us to all manner of challenges. He was in Dubai and left us to our fate. When it mattered most for us to reach out to our candidate for motivation and necessary encouragement, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar vanished to thin air.
“Knowing full well that political activities were to take off, he suddenly resurfaced and became a front liner in his quest to fly the party’s flag once again.
“That, to me, amounts to gross political selfishness and greed, which must not be allowed to flourish in our contemporary engagements. Even those who are promoters-in-chief of Alhaji Atiku’s aspiration, know in their heart of hearts that it is a project that is dead on arrival.”
Prince Afegbua stated that the southern geopolitical zones of Nigeria have eminently qualified Nigerians and parade great minds who are competent and ready to take a shot at the number one job. He stated that those who are advancing very nebulous theory of seeing the northern population as a stimulant to win the sympathy of the north against the south are either ignorant of the real demographics or at best, just playing the ostrich. He asserted that no one in the north should take away what belongs to the south. “That will be hurting the consciences and feelings of the average southerner. If the argument is to suffice for example, for an Atiku presidency, he will be finishing his first term of four years at age 81. “And was he to become a candidate in 2023 again, and per adventure he loses the election, are we, as PDP, going to reserve the position for him or any other northerner in 2027?
“These are very curious scenarios which cannot be overlooked. For 2023, an Atiku candidacy will be like promoting an expired product in the face of very compelling reason to look down south in our quest to wrest power from the fractured APC, Afegbua declared.
Prince Kassim Afegbua narrated that earlier last year, he was conscripted into the Technical Committee for Atiku presidency. According to him, “having attended three meetings of the group, I found my spirit and conscience permanently in conflict with the ethos of justice, fairness, and equity, which the south deserves.
“A Nigerian of southern extraction deserves to be given unfettered opportunity to represent the party in the 2023 presidential contest. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his northern aspirants should support the aspiration of an upwardly mobile and younger elements from the south to fly the PDP flag. Anything short of such will be tantamount to standing logic on its head, and a deliberate attempt to undermine the collective interest and aspirations of the southern aspirants.” Afegbua then declared:  “I will therefore implore the new management and members of the National Executive Committee of the PDP as well as the National Working Committee to speak with one voice in ensuring that the south is given what is due to it. Doing that, will mean promoting the fundamental principles of democracy of all-inclusiveness and participation.
“Let it be known that I will not hesitate to commence the process of mobilizing, sensitizing and conscientizing like minds and team up with other stakeholders to drum up the necessary support that will birth a Southern candidate for the party. “Justice should not only be served, but it must also be seen to have been served.”
Prince Kassim Afegbua emphasized that Nigerians in their millions are tired of seeing the faces of persons who have dominated the political space in the last 40 years and yet, unwilling to take a bow. “In the spirit of the new thinking and paradigm shift, please tell them to allow us to breathe,” he said.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp