Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





The Olowu Ogunkalu family of Oreki Village in Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos State has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to urgently intervene and stall the nefarious activities of some suspicious individuals, using their landed property as a training camp for Fulani bandits and terrorists.

Worried by the sudden development which is allegedly aided by some uniformed Police  men, collaborating with feigned landgrabbers to surreptiousilly  train terrorists and bandits, the Ogunkalu family has tasked concerned authorities in the state on the need to urgently weigh in and stop the infringement of their rights by some unscrupulous elements.

“We call on the Inspector General of Police, Director of State Security Services and the Lagos State Governor as well as the Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General of Lagos over infringement of our rights by some individuals sponsoring banditry through a cover up.

“They are perceived as mere landgrabbers, but in the real sense what they do is to conspire with some police men in uniform pretending to be landgrabbers but in reality they are running a training camp for terrorists.

The family also narrated how innocent people are most times defrauded by a billionaire fraudster Otunba Steve Ajose, often disguising as a real estate agent but specialises in stage managing dubious sale of government excised lands under acquisition to unsuspecting  buyers.

Ajose is also in alliance with an Hong Kong national named David Chang, who the family claimed had successfully built a Land grabbing cartel turned breeding ground for Fulani bandits, while deeply involved in some  other forms of illegal activities in Lagos.

According to the Ogunkalu family, Otunba Steve Ajose and David Chang have been using the Fulani bandits led by one Musibau Oladiti and some obviously compromised mobile police officers called ‘Fake Mopols’ to perpetrate evil in the Ibeju Lekki and  environ.

The spokesperson for the family Chief Waliu Olowu, Baale of Oreki who is also the head of the all the families there, alleged that the unlawful act being perpetrated by these enemies of peace unsettles the previously serene community as well as neighbouring communities.

Olowu notes with dismay that this development threatens the existence of the community, debars justice and may likely have spill over effect in other parts of Lagos; and by extension, Nigeria.

“The family resort to media intervention , as an unbiased fourth estate of the realm owing to the fact that efforts made through many letters, protests and petitions written to the Inspector General of Police were thwarted by unscrupulous officers like DSP Funmi Eguaoje and DCP Dayo Ariyo.

The listed officers serving as DC Admins in the Honourable DIG Force, were directly responsible for the delay of investigation by other police formation into the bandit trainer and Land grabbing allegations levelled against Otunba Steve Ajose and David Chang.

Among the identified Police Officers are the team led by DSP Funmi Eguaoje of PPRO unit attached to the DC Admin, Dayo Ariyo; and one Mr Uba Adams, OC Zonal Monitoring at Zone 2.
Olowu added that the cartel uses DSP Funmi Eguaoje and DCP Dayo Ariyo to harass, persecute and prosecute genuine landowners on behalf of the Land grabbers and bandits-sponsors.

“ They hijack case files and truncate investigation by setting the complainants up through frivolous charges and they end up in court for no reason, thereby causing breach of trust between the police and community.

This according to Olowu has further led to friction and clashes between the supposed law enforcement officers and Nigerians,  because the citizens would not really understand that DSP Funmi Eguaoje is a landgrabber in police uniform.
For instance;  one Abu, a Fulani bandit in the David Chang camp was arrested by the community’s securities with guns and handed over to Akodo police station, only for the case to be transferred to Zonal Monitoring Command in Zone 2, where one Uba Adams later released Abu to their lawyers and his father.

He also faulted DSP Funmi’s decision to send the same ASP Archibong to take over the files with a bid to truncate justice, and use same case files to set the complainant up.

“Over time it has been Funmi and Ariyo’s way of falsifying police investigation reports to charge innocents land owners to court.

“Abu that was arrested with gun was set free and ASP Archibong attached to DSP Funmi has taken over files  so as to implicate one Mr. Saheed of Harmony Garden and other community members.
Semiu also narrated how the Cartel arrested and unlawfully detained  the Managing Director of Harmony Garden and Estate Development Limited in the past, before the DIG took over the file from Ariyo and Funmi to GID.

According to Semiu, the mercenary of the Cartel had demolished fence of the proposed sites for the Harmony Garden and Estate Development Limited others and stationed Fulani bandits with AK 47 and now turn it to bandit training camp on the land.

“In lieu of these we beg the IGP to request for our petitions dated Sept. 27th, 2021 – one addressed to the IG’s Office; and the other, addressed to the AIG, FCID Annex, Alagbon, Ikoyi, Lagos; and do the needful including the case picked up by one ASP Archibong from Zonal Command, Zone 2, that link Abu the bandit who has close to 19 units of AK 4 in his possession evident by pictures attached to this release .

 “We as well want the IGP to withdraw the case from the present agents of the Cartel and give an unbiased officer, with proper monitoring with time frame for completion and submission.

“It may interest you to know that the Family and our clients had initiated a legal proceedings in suits No: FHC/L/CS/1706/2021 and FHC/L/CS/1395/2022 among other.

“Our consistent prayers is that the court  compel the Nigeria Police Force to remove all the cases linked to Oreki Villages; Olamuyegun and Baba Adisa from DSP Funmi Eguaoje who is a landgrabber in police uniform.

“As the Chief Security Officer of the State, we implore Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, to use the State machinery to ensure that peace continues to reign in all nooks and crannies of the State by constituting a committee or a panel of inquiry to look into the matter and bring all perpetrators to book, in ensuring justice prevail.

“With the valuable resources the Sanwo-Olu led-Administration had invested  to ensure that menace of land grabbing is completely eradicated in the state, elements like Steve Ajose, and his cohort are threat to such noble concept “.





Share this on WhatsApp