Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Novak Djokovic is set to be detained on Saturday after Australia canceled his visa for a second time, in a row over his right to remain in the country unvaccinated.
It would be recalled that Novak Djokovic was released from Australian immigration detention last Monday after winning a court challenge to remain in the country, but the government said it was still considering another move to deport him.
Judge Anthony Kelly ruled that the federal government’s decision last week to revoke the Serbian tennis star’s visa amid a row over his medical exemption from Covid-19 vaccination requirements was “unreasonable” and ordered his release.
But government lawyer Christopher Tran told the judge that the immigration minister “will consider whether to exercise a personal power of cancellation.”
READ ALSO: UK admits COVID vaccine damages natural immune system
That would mean that the nine-time Australian Open winner and defending champion could again face deportation and could miss the tournament, which starts on January 17. It could also bar him from the country for three years.
The decision on “health and good order” grounds means he faces deportation and a three-year visa ban.
“Today I exercised my power… to cancel the visa held by Mr Novak Djokovic on health and good order grounds, on the basis that it was in the public interest to do so,” Immigration Minister Alex Hawke said in a statement.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that the decision followed “careful consideration.”
Alluding to the heavy criticism his government has faced for allowing the unvaccinated player into Australia, Mr Morrison said: “Australians have made many sacrifices during this pandemic, and they rightly expect the result of those sacrifices to be protected.”
That would mean that the nine-time Australian Open winner and defending champion could again face deportation and could miss the tournament, which starts on January 17. It could also bar him from the country for three years.
 At an emergency late-night court hearing shortly after the decision was announced on Friday, Judge Anthony Kelly ruled that Djokovic cannot be deported while the appeal proceedings are happening. An appeal hearing is expected on Sunday.
The judge also said the government could detain Djokovic after he meets immigration officials in Melbourne on Saturday morning. However, he will be allowed to go to his lawyers’ offices to prepare his case ahead of Sunday’s hearing.
READ ALSO: Governments, big Pharma, others suppressing COVID treatment options – Expert
Citing a government document with more details on why it was revoked, Djokovic’s lawyer, Nicholas Wood, said it was not because he is a danger to the public, but because “he will excite anti-vax sentiment”.
Although Djokovic is not vaccinated, he has not actively promoted anti-vax disinformation. However, Australian anti-vaxxers have been using the hashtag #IStandWithDjokovic on social media.
Djokovic’s visa was first revoked shortly after his arrival in Melbourne on 6 January, after Australian border Force officials said he had “failed to provide appropriate evidence” to receive a vaccine exemption. (BBC).
Share this on WhatsApp