Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday revealed the appointment of Senator Margret Chuba Okadigbo, wife of late former President of the Senate, and vice presidential candidate to Buhari in 2003, Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, the Chairman of the board and management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited.
She takes over from Senator Ifeanyi Ararume appointed four months ago.
President Buhari in a statement on Wednesday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, indicated that he appointed the NNPC board in accordance with the power
President Buhari also appointed the Group General Manager of NNPC, Mele Kolo Kyari, as the Chief Executive Officer; Umar I. Ajiya, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Tajudeen Umar, represents North East; Mrs. Lami O. Ahmed, North Central; Mallam Mohammed Lawal, Northwest; Engr. Henry Obih, Southeast. Other members of the board include Barrister Constance Harry Marshal, South-South; and Chief Pius Akinyelure, Southwest.
The statement indicated that the appointments take effect from the date of the incorporation of NNPC Limited.
President Buhari also appointed Executive Commissioners of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission.
They include Dr. Nuhu Habib, representing Kano State, Executive Commissioner, Development and Production; Dr. Kelechi Onyekachi Ofoegbu, Imo, Executive Commissioner, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning; Capt. Tonlagha Roland John, Delta, Executive Commissioner, Health, Safety, Environment and Community; and Jide Adeola, Kogi, Executive Commissioner, Corporate Services and Administration.
President Buhari had earlier appointed the Board Chairman, CEO, Executive Commissioner, Exploration and Acreage Management, and Executive Commissioner, Finance and Accounts.
Also, the new appointees at the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority include Francis Alabo Ogaree, Rivers, Executive Director, Hydrocarbon Processing; Mustapha Lamorde, Adamawa, Executive Director, Health, Safety, Environment and Community; Mansur Kuliya, Kano, Executive Director, Midstream and Downstream Gas Infrastructure Fund; Bashir Sadiq, Sokoto, Executive Director, Corporate Services and Administration; and Dr. Zainab Gobir, Kwara, Executive Director, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning.
The statement indicated that they join the Board Chairman, Executive Director, Downstream Systems, Storage and Retailing Infrastructure, the CEO, and Executive Director, Finance and Accounts, appointed earlier by the President.
The new Council members for Midstream and Downstream Infrastructure Fund, include Effiong Abia, Akwa Ibom; Bobboi Ahmed, Adamawa; and Engr. Abdullahi Bukar, Katsina.
Share this on WhatsApp