Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The hope of the Southeast producing the President of Nigeria is getting dimmer by the day with the two major political parties in the country not ready to give the region a soft landing come 2023.
It would be recalled that the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the apex socio-cultural body of the Southeast, has demanded for the Igbo to be allowed to produce the next President of Nigeria, noting that the region is the only region in the country that is yet to produce the President.
However, going by feelers, the region may be flying a punctured kite as the two parties, the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party are not ready to zone their presidential ticket to the Southeast.
READ ALSO: Dokubo blows hot, insists Kanu, IPOB responsible for mayhem in southeast
While the ruling APC’s body language seems to favour the South, the southwest have already taken the initiative with National leader of the party, Bola Tinubu declaring his presidential ambition for 2023.
Also in the APC are former governor of Abia state, Urji Uzor Kalu and incumbent governor of Ebonyi state, David Umahi, however, Tinubu remains the leading candidate of the party.
Also in the party is governor of Kogi state, Yahaya Bello, and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who many see as a potential candidate.
Similarly, the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, has said it will not stop aspirants of northern origin from contesting its presidential ticket, foreclosing any hope of zoning the ticket to the southeast.
This implies that prospective aspirants from the North including former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar; a former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki; Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, his counterpart in Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, a former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, and others are free to contest the party’s presidential primary as against the clamour for power shift to the South.
READ ALSO: PDP chieftain urges party to produce young Southern presidential candidate
In the South, however, only a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation and ex-Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, and a former Chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, Sam Ohuabunwa, have indicated interest in the race in the PDP.
According to the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr Debo Ologunagba, his party would not stop anyone on the basis of age or where they come from.
“In the PDP, persons from every part of the country will be allowed to contest, but we can only boast that the primary will be free, fair, transparent and credible. We cannot be talking about zones in deciding on who becomes the presidential candidate of the party.
Meanwhile, a ranking member of the PDP Board of Trustees in the South-West, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an opposition party that wants to win an election may not prioritize zoning, unlike a ruling party that should ensure power rotation.
He said the PDP would have to ensure the emergence of its best aspirant that could guarantee its victory at the poll regardless of who other parties present.
Meanwhile, the pan-Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndgibo Worldwide, said it will not play second fiddle to anyone by accepting the position of vice-president from any party. It said any aspirant who does that would lose the support of the region.
Despite the clamour for power rotation, however, none of the 18 political parties has made its position known on the issue of zoning, even though several aspirants from the different parts of the country have declared their intention to contest the coveted office, mostly on the platform of the PDP and the All Progressives Congress.
 
Share this on WhatsApp