Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe transfer window will close today and Arsenal football club are yet to sign a player this January transfer window, but they could do so today as they are already known for completing deadline day transfers. Here are 3 players who could join Arsenal before the January transfer window closes.



1 – Alvaro Morata: The Gunners have been linked with a deadline day move for the Spanish striker and they could complete the signing before the transfer window closes because they seem to be in serious need of a striker at the moment.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been linked with a loan move away from the club and they need to sign a player who will increase the depth in the team’s attack. The Gunners have been struggling in the attacking sector this season and they really need to sign a prolific striker like Alvaro Morata.




2 – Tyler Adams: Another player who could join Arsenal football club before the transfer window closes is Tyler Adams who has been a very prolific player for RB Leipzig football club this season. The Gunners might also want to strengthen their defensive midfield and Tyler Adams could be the preferred option.

The defensive midfield of the team has not been consistent this season and they have been linked with moves for some defensive midfielders, but Tyler Adams seems to be a cheaper option for the Gunners because he is valued at £20m by transfer market and he could be available for a fee that is not too much.
3 – Isco: The Gunners were linked with a move for Dejan Kulusevski of Juventus football club but it looks like the transfer is beyond reach for them and they could turn to Isco of Real Madrid. The Spanish playmaker has always been linked with a move to Arsenal football club, but it could happen this January.
The Spanish playmaker could bring more creativity to the team if he is signed from Real Madrid football club before the January transfer window closes, he is more experienced and more prolific than the likes of Emile Smith Rowe and Martin Odegaard.


Share this on WhatsApp