Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
By Odunewu Olusegun

Chairman of Parallex Bank Limited, Dr. Adeola Phillips has reiterated that the emergence of the new bank into the Nigerian and global market is going to strengthen the e-banking space because of its innovative platforms designed to meet customers’ need at all times.
Dr. Phillips who disclosed this at the weekend when she unveiled the bank’s new corporate headquarters in Victoria Island, Lagos, said Parallex Bank is out to make a unique statement about what innovation can do in an industry that is constantly reinventing.
Addressing dignitaries, including the Deputy Governor of Delta state, Barr. Kingsley Burutu Otuaro; former EVC/CEO of the Nigerian Communications Commission and Chairman, Board of Directors of MTN Nigeria, Ernest Ndukwe; Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 2 Lagos, Bode Adeyinka Adeleke and many other captains of industries and government officials, Dr. Phillips noted that with the introduction of customer-centric, stress-free and affordable products and services, Parallex Bank is set to offer competitive services that are a step ahead of competitors.
READ ALSO: Parallex Bank to redefine Nigerian banking landscape – Bakre
She stated that the new will disrupt the market and delight customers with very attractive offers. “Most transactions on Parallex mobile app are free but beyond that, customers will have the freedom to do much more with the app. Our platform will eliminate inconveniencies and hardship often faced by customers while paying for goods and services.”
“What we are celebrating today is very dear to our heart, to Nigeria and Nigerians as well. It is the introduction of a unique financial institution that believes in the economy of this great nation and the potential it holds.
“We will operate broadly with a competitive mindset. We will also support the growth of the nation’s businesses in an ethical manner while also subscribing to corporate governance at all levels.
“We see our coming to the market as an opportunity to empower the banking public and to drive convenient and efficient commerce through our digital platforms. This will undoubtedly position us further to meet the needs of modern banking customers.
“With our five-year strategic Plan, crafted with the world’s best consultants, we believe strongly that the Bank will record giant strides in its fundamentals. This will be made possible with the adoption of new operational processes, implementation of modern business enterprises, heavy investment in banking information technology, expansion of operations, product innovations and being more market focused.”
READ ALSO: Parallex Bank launched, promises zero-maintenance charges, other innovative services to customers
In his own remark, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Parallex Bank Ltd, Olufemi Bakre revealed that the bank is ready to revolutionize the banking industry with its innovative services driven by cutting-edge technology.
He said the bank which is located at the heart of the commercial center of Lagos with strategically placed branches across three geopolitical zones in Nigeria, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja is leveraging the best talents and technology to deliver unparalleled value to all its stakeholders.
“We‘ll be committed to our customers. From the MD to the other executives, we shall be knocking at their doors from time to time to offer not just financial advice, but also to help develop their business ideas and listen to any issues they may have.”

Share this on WhatsApp