Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The UK government admits that vaccines have damaged the natural immune system of those who have been double-vaccinated.
The UK government has admitted that once you have been double-vaccinated, you will never again be able to acquire full natural immunity to Covid variants – or possibly any other virus.
In its Week 42 “COVID-19 Vaccine Surveillance Report”, the UK Department of Health admits on page 23 that “N antibody levels appear to be lower in people who become infected after two doses of vaccination”.
It goes on to say that this drop in antibodies is essentially permanent. What does this mean? We know that vaccines do not prevent infection or transmission of the virus (indeed, the report elsewhere shows that vaccinated adults are now much more likely to be infected than unvaccinated ones).
READ ALSO: French teachers protest against COVID-19 incoherent policy for schools
The British now find that the vaccine interferes with the body’s ability to make antibodies after infection not only against the spike protein but also against other parts of the virus.
In particular, vaccinated people do not appear to form antibodies against the nucleocapsid protein, the envelope of the virus, which is a crucial part of the response in unvaccinated people. In the long term, the vaccinated are far more susceptible to any mutations in the spike protein, even if they have already been infected and cured once or more.
The unvaccinated, on the other hand, will gain lasting, if not permanent, immunity to all strains of the alleged virus after being naturally infected with it even once.
The first insurance companies are backing down because a huge wave of claims is coming their way.
Anthony Fauci confirms that the PCR test cannot detect live viruses, and he also confirmed that neither the antigen test nor the PCR test can tell us whether someone is contagious or not.
This invalidates all the foundations of the so-called pandemic.
Share this on WhatsApp