Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






In case you never paid much attention, it’s time to do it.


Here are the benefits of charcoal you never thought of:
1. Does your shoe smell bad? Just buy charcoal and put it in it.
2. Do you have a bad smell in your room? Drop charcoal that you think the smell might come from.
3. Does your refrigerator or freezer have a smell? Put a piece of coal in it.
4. Do you have a strong body smell? Just make a charcoal powder and use. Charcoal is very good to get rid of the bad smell.
5. Have you ever wondered why your parents always pick up the ashes of the coal pot to pour in the hen or toilet before sweeping? It was to get rid of the smell.
6. If you want your vegetables to be fresh all the time, make a solution with charcoal and leave your vegetables.
7. Nowadays, people complain about the use of fertilizer on plants and vegetables, making them unhealthy and toxic. If you have charcoal, you don’t have to worry about it. All you need to do is leave the vegetables in a charcoal solution during the night and it will take care of the toxins.
8. If you suspect that a food contains too many chemicals, simply drop them in a charcoal pan for a few hours and you are ready to leave.
9. If you want to whiten your teeth, don’t pay attention to all these ads on chemicals and bleaching technology. Just get charcoal and catch a plantain stem. Make a powder on charcoal, crush the end of the plantain stem, soak in charcoal powder and brush your teeth for a week.
10. Did you have a hangover after drinking with friends the previous night? Just have charcoal with you and chew on it. To make it more effective, make it a nice solution and drink. You’re good at it.
11. Did your peanut or palm soup go wrong? You don’t have to worry about everything. Just put it on fire and drop a piece of charcoal. This will extract all the bad taste and smell and restore soup to its fresh state. Charcoal. It’s a lot safer than eating chicken.
12. Do you have pimples, acne or skin disease that you really want to get rid of or do you want a very smooth face or skin? All you need is charcoal. Make a thick solution and apply it on your body and leave it for a few hours before taking your bath. It will leave your skin fresh and fresh.
13. Do you have a persistent stain in your kitchen, bathroom or tiles? You really need charcoal to get rid of it. I know you imagine how this black terrazzo product can actually eliminate stain? Try it, it works like magic.
14. If you ate or drank something and you feel swollen, charcoal is the best solution to get rid of bloating.
15. Make a solution and drink to help eliminate all the bad cholesterol you stored in you. Charcoal can treat all ulcers. Take the habit of always chewing.
16. Headache, a teaspoon of coal drink and you will get relieved. Stomach aches, a teaspoon of coal and evil goes away the next minute. You got hurt, pour some coal powder and you will be alright.
17.It treats diarrhea, amoeba, injuries (ash outside that its an antibiotic, it’s more than medical alcohol), and in the metaphysical field, coal aspires to negative elements or entities on the body, water to drink, bath (just some 2 or 3 pieces) and in houses (house corners a little salt).
18. Constipation; you have done 3 days without going to the WC, croque 2 to 4 pieces and you will go to the WC that same day.
19. It’s the sovereign drug against viruses including aids virus. He doesn’t kill viruses, but he has the ability to neutralize them so that they are in the body and remain harmless.
20. Coal also cures migraines. Charcoal also softens the influence of chili either in the mouth or in the eyes.
21. For ulcer we mix with sugar and for effective dental hygiene also mixed with lemon to brush.






Share this on WhatsApp