Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFashola Commends Ganduje’s cooperation on FG projects in the state.
The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, has commended Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State for the cooperation his ministry has got over Federal Government projects in the state.
The minister gave the commendation during a courtesy visit on the governor while on an inspection tour of Federal Government projects in the state.
According to Fashola, he is in the state among other things to participate in the All Progressive Congress national youth programme slated for Kano on Jan. 27.
He said that the second aspect of his visit was to inspect all the ongoing Federal Government projects, including the national pilot housing programme and roads under construction in Kano and its environs.
“I must thank your Excellency for the cooperation the ministry had received from the Kano State Government under your able watch.
“I am sure that our work in and around Kano will have been more difficult without the cooperation you have accorded us. I extend the gratitude of our ministry and by extension that of the Federal Government.
“One of the areas we first felt the hand of fellowship of Kano State Government is in the area of National Pilot Housing Programme. Many years back, we were able to secure a land in the heart of the city for the programme.
“Not only that, we have been able to complete the phases one and two of the projects, we have also been provided land that allow us to expand into phase three.
“I was there this evening to see things for myself, the first two phases are ready for commissioning,” Fashola said.
He urged Kano residents to subscribe to the housing unit either by buying it or getting apartment on rent.
Fashola also said that an online portal had been open that take people through the application process to subscribe for the houses.
The minister also disclosed that the Federal Government had undertaken 21 road projects in and around Kano State, amounting to 960 kilometres.
According to him, some of the roads are Kano to Abuja high way, Kano to Katsina highway and Kano to Maiduguri Expressway, among others.
Responding, Ganduje appreciated the Federal Government for all the road networks in the state and its environs .
According to him, members of the state executive are fully aware of the infrastructural facilities provided by the Federal Government in the state.
He said that the state government was making arrangement to pay compensation for some of the roads to avoid hiccups in their completion.

He thanked the Federal Government for reviving Kano-Maiduguri Road, Yobe -Jigawa,which, he said, had been abandoned for so many years.

Ganduje also thanked the Federal Government for the railway network in states such as Lagos, Ibadan and Kano.
According to the governor, the Federal Government is not only making Kano a commercial nerve centre to Nigeria, but to West African countries.
He state government would soon start operating a mass transit system that will ease transportation for all in the state and urged the Federal Government to assist in it s realisation.
Share this on WhatsApp