Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe covid vaccine mandate is generating more controversies across the world over the harms citizens incur from vaccine jabs without being taken care of by the organizations imposing compulsory vaccination. Available data from several countries show that the incidence of adverse effects, including deaths from COVID-19 vaccination has been on the increase. However, citizens bear the burden of harms incurred from vaccine jabs in various countries, including death.
An ethicist, Dr. Julie Ponesse, is challenging the imposition of COVID vaccine mandate on citizens by governments and organizations across the world, denying citizens their medical rights and also leaving the people to the harm that comes with the vaccine mandate and covid restrictions.
Ethicist Julie Ponesse, therefore, advocates that “organizations that impose COVID-19 mandates must also be responsible for the harms those mandates could potentially cause and cannot be absolved by claiming they were following orders from Health Canada.”
The deficiency of the various vaccines in providing immunity against COVID infection or cure have become obvious in recent times. Governments and vaccine producers are covering up the ineffectiveness of the vaccines by enforcing citizens to accept booster jabs after receiving the initial two-spaced vaccine jabs.
Detailed data from the Center for Disease Control, CDC, which reveals rising figures of adverse effects from COVID vaccines, shows that the vaccines are making the world more unsafe than the virus they intend to prevent. Apparently, the ‘medicine’ has become more dangerous and destructive than the ‘sickness’ it intended to cure or prevent.
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States, U.S., in its recent data, revealed that a total of 927,740 reports on adverse effects of COVID vaccines between December 14, 2020, and November 26, 2021, were sent to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, VAERS.
The classification of the data showed a total of 19,532 reports of deaths, an increase of 283 over the previous week; and 146,720 reports of serious injuries, including deaths, during the same period, an increase of 3,325 compared with the previous week.
Excluding “foreign reports” to VAERS, 672,373 adverse effects, including 8,986 deaths and 57,143 serious injuries, were reported in the U.S. between December 14, 2020, and November 26, 2021.
Of the 8,986 U.S. deaths reported as of November 26, 20% occurred within 24 hours of vaccination, 26% occurred within 48 hours of vaccination and 61% occurred in people who experienced an onset of symptoms within 48 hours of being vaccinated.
Every Friday, VAERS publishes vaccine injury reports received on a specific date.
A recent death report involved a 16-year-old girl from Georgia – VAERS I.D. 1865389 – who died from a heart condition and multi-organ failure two days after receiving Pfizer’s COVID vaccine.
He argued that 60 reports of anaphylaxis among 12 to 17 years old victims, where the reaction was life-threatening, required treatment or resulted in death with 96% of cases attributed to Pfizer’s vaccine.
In a study published in the American Journal of Cardiology, researchers found that the age-adjusted incidence rate of myopericarditis in men was higher in the vaccinated than the control population, while the incidence rate of myopericarditis in women was the same between the vaccinated and control population.
The researchers also found an increased incidence of myocardial injury in both men and women in 2021 compared to 2019, although, they suggested some of the apparent increase in the diagnosis of pericarditis after vaccination may be attributable to factors unrelated to COVID vaccines.
Meanwhile, a report in The European Union Times, indicated that Dr. Reiner Fuellmich is leading a team of over 1,000 lawyers and over 10,000 medical experts questioning the simulation of the PCR test to give predetermined results of COVID infection.
In the report, Dr. Fuellmich and his team declared that the faulty PCR test and the directive to doctors to label any comorbidity death as a Covid death is fraud. They argued that the PCR test was never designed to detect pathogens and is 100% faulty at 35 cycles. “All the PCR tests overseen by the CDC are set at 37 to 45 cycles. The CDC admits that any tests over 28 cycles are not admissible for a positive reliable result. This alone invalidates over 90% of the alleged covid cases /“infections” tracked by the use of this faulty test,” they argued.
The 1,000 lawyers and over 10,000 medical experts led by Dr. Fuellmich, therefore, commenced legal proceedings against the Center for Disease Control, CDC, World Health Organization, WHO, and the Davos Group for crimes against humanity. They further argued inter alia that, “in addition to the flawed tests and fraudulent death certificates, the “experimental” vaccine itself is in violation of Article 32 of the Geneva Convention.”
Share this on WhatsApp