Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Authorities of the University of Ibadan are imposing COVID vaccine on all students of the premier University, threatening to deny students who failed to get vaccinated hostel accommodation in the school.
This comes on the heels of the many side effects of the vaccine which has been documented over time which has prompted many countries across the globe to drop the COVID mandates for their citizens.
According to data released by British experts, COVID shots are an abysmal failure as COVID infection rates in the UK are higher among the “fully vaccinated” in all adult cohorts.

Infection rates are also rising faster among the fully vaxxed than in unvaccinated cohorts of all ages. All in all, these data prove that vaccine passports and mandates are completely pointless.
READ ALSO: How DOD, Dr. Fauci lied about deaths, damages from COVID vaccines (Video)
Data from Scotland show more of the same. Double-jabbed Scots are more likely to be admitted to the hospital for COVID than unvaccinated. Since Omicron became dominant, COVID case rates are also lower among the unvaccinated than among the single-, double- and even triple-jabbed.
Meanwhile in an internal memo dated 25th of November 2021 from the Dean of students, Professor Isaac Adekeye Abiona to the Vice Chancellor of the school titled RE: Vaccination of students against COVID 19, Abiona stated that response of the students to the vaccine was poor despite having sufficient doses.
READ ALSO: Ex U I students leader seeks redress over expulsion
He therefore urged the Vice Chancellor to make it mandatory for all students.
“This was discussed extensively during the Committee of Wardens meeting on 24 of November, 2021. It was decided that all students should be vaccinated as a condition for accommodation in halls next session in view of health implications for all students and staff.
“Sir, in view of the decision made during the Committee of wardens’ meeting above. I seek your approval that only students that are vaccinated be given accommodation next session.
Prof. Abiona also stated in the memo that provision has been made for all students, both on campus and off campus to take the vaccine.

Share this on WhatsApp