Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 






A suit seeking to stop the Nigerian Police and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) from arresting and extraditing suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari was, on Wednesday, stalled.
The suit, marked FHC/ABJ/CS/854/2021, could not proceed before Justice Donatus Okorowo due to the absence of the counsel to the plaintiff and the respondents.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Incorporated Trustees of Northern Peace Foundation had, on Aug. 9, 2021, filed the suit, praying the court to grant a temporary order of injunction against the police and AGF pending the hearing and final determination of the substantive suit.
When the matter was called, none of the parties’ lawyers was in court.
Justice Okorowo noted that though the case was filed on Aug. 9, 2021, none of the respondents had been served from the available court record.
According to the judge, there is no proof of service from the court record.
He also noted that neither the applicant counsel nor the defence lawyer was in court.
“It is either the applicant has lost interest in the case or the case is abandoned,” he said.
Okorowo, who adjourned the matter until Feb. 10, ordered that hearing notices be issued on the parties.
NAN reports that the matter, which was reassigned to Justice Okorowo, came up for the first time today.
Justice Ahmed Mohammed had, on Aug. 19, 2021, refused to grant an ex-parte application brought by counsel to the group, Olukayode Ajulo, seeking to restrain the respondents from arresting and extraditing Kyari.
Ajulo had urged Justice Mohammed to grant the temporary order of injunction against the two defendants pending the hearing and final determination of the substantive suit.
The ex-parte application was accomplished with a 21 paragraph affidavit of urgency.
But after carefully listened to the lawyer. Mohammed refused to grant the request to stop Kyari’s arrest and extradition through ex-parte means.
Rather, the judge ordered the counsel to turn the ex-parte motion to motion on notice and serve same on the police and the AGF.
The Judge also directed the applicant to serve all court processes in respect of the case on the two respondents.
NAN reports that DCP Abba Kyari was allegedly indicted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in an alleged mult-million naira advanced fee fraud said to have been perpetrated by a Nigerian citizen, Ramon Olorunwa Abbass, popularly known as Hussipuppi.






Share this on WhatsApp