Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The 14-year old house help who abducted her madam’s 2-year old son in Mowe area of Ogun state, Favour  Iwuozor, last December has been arrested by operatives of the Ogun state police command.
National Daily had earlier published the report where the parent of the missing boy had raised the alarm.
The boy’s father, Peter Otojareri, in the report, said Favour, who was introduced to the family by a man the mother knows, decided to employ Favour to cater for their two children, a nine-year-old daughter, and their two-year-old son, Praise Otojareri
The suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at Sagamu divisional headquarters by one Victoria Nwafor, who reported that she saw a 14 years old girl on the 22nd of December 2021, with a very sick two year old boy in Yaba Lagos.
She stated further that the little girl was begging for alms under the pretense that the small boy is her younger brother and that their parents died in a ghastly accident in December 2020.
READ ALSO: House help disappears with family’s two-year-old son in Lagos
Out of compassion, the woman took both of them to her house in Sagamu in order to take care of the little boy’s deteriorating health condition.
But immediately the boy fully recovered, the suspect wanted to single-handedly take the boy to Imo state. This aroused the woman’s suspicion, hence her report.
Upon the report, the Divisional Police Officer of Sagamu division, CSP Okiki Agunbiade detailed his detectives to go and bring the girl and the little boy.
On interrogation, the girl confessed that she was a maid to the mother of the little boy, and that she left with the boy on the 19th of December 2021, with the intention of taking the boy to Amraku Umorsu in Isiala/Mberna local government area of Imo state.
She stated further that she took the baby from the church during Sunday school period, and since the Sunday school teacher knows her with the baby’s mother, she has no problem releasing the baby to her. She explained further that she decided to beg for alms in order to raise transport fare to Imo state.
Meanwhile, the commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole has ordered that the baby’s parents be contacted urgently, while the case should be forwarded to Lagos state command whose jurisdiction the crime was actually committed.
Share this on WhatsApp