Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Bola Tinubu continued his tour and consultation two days ago. He travelled to Niger State. The first reason for his trip was to pay a condolence visit to the state governor. He was also there to consult top Nigerians including former military president Ibrahim Babangida. Two things remain unclear.
Tinubu told Nigerians that he would consult as many people as possible in his bid to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari. Shortly after he informed the president, Tinubu started making frantic moves so as to achieve his purpose.
Ibrahim Babangida ruled the country and he supervised one of the most transparent elections in the country. The June 12, 1993 election would forever remain in Nigerians minds. But the election was annulled by the Babangida’s Government.
The late Moshood Abiola was projected to win the election. But it was annulled and he wasn’t declared winner. Crisis ensued most especially in the southwest region of the country. Lives and properties were lost.
Bola Tinubu was among the NADECO that fought for the actualisation of June 12 election. The group fought tirelessly to restore the mandate. The group, nevertheless, failed. Now, the issue is: has Tinubu forgotten the role Babangida played?
Tinubu could have snubbed the former military president, bearing in mind the issue of June 12. But he didn’t. Does it mean Tinubu has moved on and forgotten the past? If yes, he may need to make it public.
The second issue is that Ibrahim Babangida has made his choice for the 2023 presidential election. The former head of state has chosen current Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He didn’t mince words when doing that. And Tinubu ought to be aware of it.
The meek vice president has not talked directly to Nigerians, but he has been getting endorsements without reacting to oppose them. In as much as Ibrahim Babangida has made his intent known, why would Tinubu still consult him?
It is actually unclear. Did Tinubu have conviction that Babangida would change his mind? Was he sure that Osinbajo wouldn’t come out openly to show interest in the race? It will be a mission in futility if Tinubu had gone to meet Babangida without any assurance.


Share this on WhatsApp