Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Plantains are the starchier, less sweet cousin of the banana. Sweet bananas, also known as “dessert bananas,” are far more popular.
Plantains, unlike dessert bananas, are almost always cooked before eating. They taste pretty bad raw, so don’t be fooled by their banana-like appearance.
Cooked plantains are nutritionally similar to potatoes in terms of calories, but they contain more vitamins and minerals. They’re high in fiber, vitamins A, C, and B-6, as well as the minerals magnesium and potassium.
Here Are 6Health Benefits of Unripe Plantain.
1. Weight control.
Carbohydrates aren’t necessarily bad for weight loss, as many people believe. Plantains contain complex carbohydrates in the form of fiber and starch.
Fiber and complex carbohydrates are less processed and digested more slowly than simple carbohydrates found in processed foods. They keep you fuller and more satisfied for longer after a meal, which means you’ll eat fewer unhealthy snacks.
2. Contains a lot of antioxidants.
In a single cup, plantains provide a significant amount of your daily recommended amount of vitamin C. This vitamin functions as an antioxidant, which may aid in the improvement of your immune system.
It may protect your body from free radical damage associated with aging, heart disease, and even some types of cancer as an antioxidant.
3. Good for your heart.
The high amount of potassium found in plantains is essential for maintaining the cell and body fluids that control your heart rate and blood pressure.
The fiber in plantains also helps lower your cholesterol, which in turn keeps your heart functioning at its best.
4. According to 9jafood.com unripe plantain enhance erotic performances, reducing carnal weakness, and impotence.
5. 4. Digestive health
Fiber is important because it promotes regular bowel movements. Fiber softens and expands your stool, increasing its overall size and weight.
Bulky stools are much easier to pass and, as a result, help to prevent constipation.
A high-fiber diet may also lower your risk of hemorrhoids and diverticular disease, which are small pouches in your large intestine. Fiber also increases fullness, slows digestion, and may aid in cholesterol management.
6. The starch in green plantain helps to decrease acidity and reduce irritation in the body. Green plantain can be used to prevent or heal an ulcer.


Share this on WhatsApp