Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Discoveries are emerging on how global PR giant Publicis Groupe was consulted to collaborate with the wealthy and powerful entities to propagate false information on global health hazards, poisonous agricultural modalities, and the damaging effects of fossil fuel proliferation. A screenwriter and philosopher, Alan Sharp, was cited to have asserted that “The truth is a lie, yet to be found out.” This aphorism best explains the circumstances of the assumed coronavirus outbreak, the pandemic, the vaccine business, climate change, and other global issues claimed to eb threatening human existence on earth.
A healthcare activism group in the U.S., Children’s Health Defence, has emphasized that “the response by powerful economic forces to the pandemic has revealed insidious relationships that are driving our planet towards self-destruction. It raised alarm that huge sums of money are disbursed by the wealthy and powerful to fund the big publicists across the world.
“These relationships are not founded on a secret conspiracy…” The group attempted to expose “the major players” and the “contemptible pandemic profiteers.”
The group asserted that there are evidence revealing “overt collaboration among those who profit from [the propaganda on] deadly healthcare practices, poisonous agricultural modalities and the detrimental effects of fossil fuel proliferation.” The beneficiaries of these anti-human race propaganda were identified to have recruited strong propaganda machines to counter and censor liberal minds putting the records straight across the world.
The Children Healthcare Defence had noted that promoters of anti-human race safety usually deploy tactics that have no ethical foundation, adding that those opposing “their twisted logic, manipulative linguistics or deadly actions are deemed enemies and summarily attacked and dismissed.”
The promoters of corporate and government apparatuses have been identified as critical conveyors for transiting ‘disastrous patterns of distraction, deception and subterfuge’. Experienced publicity agents were said to be assigned the dark and devious task by the powerful in the world.
A Jurist and judicial philosopher, Learned Hand, was cited to have asserted that, “The art of publicity is a black art, but it has come to stay, and every year adds to its potency.”
The Children Healthcare Defence had declared: “Nowhere is deceit and hypocrisy more apparent than when evaluating the mercenary endeavors of the huge public relations, media communications and advertising conglomerates.
“Their primary activity is supporting and disguising the damaging policies and programs of their influential clientele.
“The essential skill of these expert spin doctors is their ability to fabricate a favorable interpretation of damaging information or activity or diminish the impact of the truth.
“Through tried-and-true psychological ploys, repetition of false information or casting doubt on factual realities, ad agencies and PR firms target those who need to be influenced on behalf of their clients.
“The more powerful the client, the more money is at stake — and the more intense the campaign.”
The group decried that the activities of the Publicis Groupe, with headquarters in France, demonstrate ‘the depth of the dysfunction afflicting the planet’; lamenting that  the largest entities are neck-deep in managing the mass psychological operations in the world.
The group asserted that the Publicis Groupe activities reflect a good example of ‘how the tentacles of greed, profit and privilege connect the catastrophic agendas of the most powerful enterprises on Earth’.
The group noted that Publicis Groupe, a multi billion-dollar sales campaigns and public relations firm, continually upgrades its methodologies to consolidate on its decades of global experience in handling people, minimizing crisis and marketing products, while establishing branches in many countries of the world from its headquarters in France.
Publicis PR experts were identified as ‘masters of damage control, the manipulation of words and people, and of selling the unsellable’, adopting sophisticated social psychology and ‘incorporating the cutting edge of artificial intelligence’.
Chairman and CEO of Publicis Groupe, Arthur Sadoun, was cited to have declared, “Our aim is to be our clients’ indispensable partner.”
Children Healthcare Defence disputed the claim that the Publicis Groupe has any concern for the public; saying, “this is a façade.” The healthcare defenders declared that “the general public is not a beneficiary; on the contrary, consumers are the target of the company’s efforts.”
The Publicis Groupe was identified to majorly work on behalf of its elite patrons against the general interest of the people. This service was profoundly detected in the propagation of COVID-19, doubts on curability of the virus, COVID control mechanisms and imposition of diverse restrictions, the sudden distribution of vaccines, and the subsequent vaccine mandate with threats of sanctions. The services of the group also extend to the propagation of climate change posing serious threats to human existence, and the associated campaign to cut down on emission and others.
The various propagation are coming from the West and trickling down to Africa, Asia and others where stereotype public policies have been endemic.
 
Share this on WhatsApp