Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Ahead of 2023 general elections, the Alumni of Evangelical Christian Union (ECU), Obafemi Awolowo University has described Dr.Akinwunmi Ayodeji Adesina as  one who exemplifies the requirement of leadership Nigeria needs now.

The religious based student group made the assertion, while commenting on the outstanding qualities of the current President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) and a former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

ECU Alumni in a statement jointly signed by its President Comrade Jide Bakare and Comrade Pitan Akinrele the Public Relations Officer, notes that Dr. Akinwunmi’s capacity has been well tested at the continental level and it remains untainted.

“We encourage all the leaders, political class and aspiring politicians in Nigeria to emulate these noble principles and values as displayed by Dr. Akinwumi Adesina in the quest to find lasting solutions to the myriads of socio-economic challenges facing the nation.

“In the words of the great Satirist and Anglican Cleric of old, Jonathan Swift, who said; “That whoever could make two ears of corn, or two blades of grass, to grow upon a spot of ground where only one grew before, would deserve better of mankind, and do more essential service to his country, than the whole race of politicians put together.”

Stressing that this was directly a product of the values instilled in all members of the ECU alumni Obafemi Awolowo University of which he is a worthy ambassador.

Dr. Akinwunmi, who earlier this month received The Guardian Newspaper man of year award was celebrated by the alumni for being a worthy ambassador of the body.

Comrade Bakare recounted that “While receiving the award, a striking remark clearly stands him out, Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina was able to weather the storm against the allegation of corruption in the running of the continental body in 2020.

 “To Akinwumi Ayodeji Adesina belongs an illustrious African pedigree and abiding ethos that his backbiters underrated, if they know of them.”

“For us ECU Alumni all over the world, we recognise those abiding ethos and ethical consciousness as the foundational values, principles and character formation upon which our members were built up from their youth to become true agents of change on their various mountains of influence.

“Dr. Akinwumi Adesina is a true representation and worthy ambassador of the ECU Alumni Fellowship, depicting integrity, resilience, honesty, diligence, poise, and creativity.

“This award we believe will spur the African Development Bank helmsman into devoting himself more into the dedicated task of steering the African continent into her era of socio-economic development through his High 5 priorities which involves lighting up and powering Africa, feeding the continent, industrializing Africa, integrating Africa, and improving the quality of life for the people of Africa.”
Share this on WhatsApp