Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

One may ask the difference between consuming raw eggs and cooked eggs and I’d say that the taste and feel in our mouth is different, well, this is true but a closer look at raw egg and its effects on us when we drink it will give a better explanation. Eggs are well-known for their good taste as well as benefits to those who care to eat them, but for those who drink them some effects surface, especially when consumed at night.
It’s not enough to say egg is highly nutritious, I should at least let you know that eggs contain the following nutrients
√ Fat
√ Calcium
√ Protein
√ Vitamin D
√ Magnesium
√ Potassium
√ Phosphorus and other valuable substances.
The valuable substances mentioned above include antioxidants like zeaxanthin and lutein. A nutrient-packed food like an egg ought to live up to its name in terms of what it adds to our health, and from what I’ve seen, eggs do that so well.
Some of the health benefits of consuming eggs include a reduced risk of heart diseases, eggs promote eye health, eggs may help with weight loss, consuming eggs may also reduce your risk of having a stroke.

These benefits will be enjoyed by those who eat eggs regularly but for those who drink raw eggs, there are some effects heaped up for them, and as the belief that everything with an advantage has a disadvantage goes, raw egg is no exception, it’s most times a question of the risk to reward ratio, it is worth it or would you be at gross disadvantage health-wise when you drink raw eggs at night?
Some effects of drinking raw eggs include
1. Drinking raw eggs at night may help you sleep better.
With the whole struggle for quality sleep at night many have turned to sleep tablets to help them out, but why look that way when you have a natural alternative in raw eggs? According to an article on morefm, the sleepiness we crave is a function of melatonin which is featured in egg whites of eggs.

Egg is also a rich source of tryptophan, a substance that helps you sleep better, eggs are nutritious but for the two substances mentioned above, they help with sleep at night. (Sourced from morefm.co.nz)
2. Hindrance of biotin absorption.
Biotin is also known as vitamin B7, is a water-soluble vitamin that is contained in eggs, this is a valuable nutrient that ought to get us via consumption of eggs, in this case cooked eggs, not raw eggs.
According to Healthline, egg yolk is a good source of biotin, but the issue comes when it is about to be absorbed, a substance called Avidin stands to prevent this and hinder our absorption of vitamin B7, this happens only when we consume raw eggs because avidin is destroyed by heat and cooked eggs go through a lot of heat, therefore, there’s no avidin to hinder the biotin absorption in cooked eggs, the exact opposite happens in raw eggs. This effect will still be noticed when raw egg is consumed at night.
3. Bacteria contamination by salmonella is common with raw eggs and it can lead to food poisoning when raw eggs are consumed, if the eggs are cooked then the risk will be lower due to the help offered by the heat of boiling.
4. Decreased protein absorption.
When we eat raw foods we tend to have nutrients that are not at their peak of bioavailability, and with raw eggs this is no different. The high-quality protein in eggs will not be maximally absorbed in raw eggs as compared to cooked eggs and according to Healthline, a study carried out on 5 people showed 50% protein absorption in raw eggs and 90% protein absorption in cooked eggs.

In conclusion, raw eggs are just as nutritious as cooked eggs and the effect of drinking raw eggs come from contamination, the bioavailability of important nutrients, protein absorption, and sleep enhancement, these effects of drinking raw eggs will be experienced even when raw egg is consumed at night, with the spotlight on sleep enhancement.


Share this on WhatsApp