Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFor being 75 years old, ex-V.P Atiku Abubakar seeking the party’s ticket again in 2023 is a no-no, Bauchi Gov. Bala Mohammed has said.
In the self-serving statement, Mohammed said Atiku is qualified, but age is not on the side of the 2019 PDP presidential candidate again.
The governor claimed  the  PDP Bauchi invited Atiku to the state on the matter of the 2023 presidential ticket.
“I told him that in this game, I know he’s the most senior, he’s very qualified but because of his age and fatigue, he should allow his younger brother to be his spare tyre not to take over just like that,” he said while receiving the report of his own campaign group on the weekend.
“But if Nigerians prefer him, I will support him. I am not too desperate but he should know that Nigerians like me too. And whatever he wants, I will do it for him, so this is our agreement, he has the highest respect from me.”
Atiku is still marking time, but his technical committee has gone to town consulting and garnering goodwill for him.
Raymond Dokpesi, the media tycoon heading the committee, sold a one-term pitch and vice presidency to the southeast last week, assuring his principal can the work it that an Igbo president will take over from him.
Ohnaeze has dismissed the pitch, saying it was disrespectful
Bala, too, has indicated interest, though he is clutching at his governor seat for a second term.
His Contact and Consultation Committee have been moving round the country consulting.
“I am aware that even in Bauchi, people are divided. My elder brother, Bala Hadith, had the courage to tell me that people of Bauchi don’t want me to go to the center and I appreciate him,” he said.
“Bauchi can be better if I’m at the center.”
And he tactfully advised his deputy governor not to think of taking over.
“He should not be happy to send me forth so that he will take over the governorship. I will do the two together,” he said.
According to him, Sokoto Gov Aminu Tambuwal tried the party presidential primary in 2019, failed, nd still reclaimed his guber ticket for a second term/
“We are going to test it.”
Share this on WhatsApp