Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Dr. Pierre Kory, founder and president of Front Line COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance has expressed his frustrations about how governments and big pharmaceutical companies are suppressing information on treatment options for the COVID pandemic.
Dr. Kory who appeared on CHD.TV’s “Doctors and Scientists” where he and host Brian Hooker, Ph.D., unveiled why cost-effective successful therapeutics are being censored, said there are other cost effective options.
He also asked why the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are refusing to make public critical data.
The two also discussed the importance of early treatment for COVID, and how Dr. Anthony Fauci and Big Pharma suppressed information and science about treatment options.
READ ALSO: COVID vaccines very dangerous for young people, scientist warns
Kory, former chief of critical care service and director of the Trauma and Life Support Center in Madison, Wisconsin, described his frustration with the repression of “good science” on repurposing low-cost medications, such as ivermectin, to treat COVID patients.
He also criticized what he called “nonsensical” mass vaccination and the censorship of ethical medical practices.
Kory said he and other doctors working on the frontlines during the initial wave of COVID infections were shocked by the unethical “stand-by-and-do-nothing” directives handed down by medical agencies.
READ ALSO: Expert discusses Invermectin successes, questions Canada’s COVID approach
Morally bound by the Hippocratic Oath and their desire to help their patients, Kory and a handful of world-renowned medical colleagues established the FLCCC Alliance. They developed three protocols using a combination of repurposed therapeutics to fight COVID.
Kory described his personal experience of being undermined by higher medical organizations and the scientific journal, Frontiers in Pharmacology.
He said medical agencies demonized doctors like him for using safe, cost-effective therapeutics while they pushed dangerous and costly patented vaccines and drugs that have not completed standardized clinical trials.
Hooker pointed out the irony of doctors being persecuted for advocating for safe and effective treatment for COVID during a time when no other treatment was available.
Share this on WhatsApp