Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love








Supporters of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has revealed that the former governor of Lagos state and presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu is not bothered by the assumptions of some people.

Speaking on Sunday, the head of media, Tinubu Support Group
Tosin Adeyanju, said no one could stop what he called the “Tinubu train” anymore.

He said, “The reception for the Tinubu project all over the country has been overwhelming. Everywhere we go, we get massive support for the desire of our principal to become the next President of the country.

READ ALSO: Tinubu focuses on Niger, donates millions, gives more promises in kind


“On Monday, about 2,500 support groups met at the International Conference Centre, Abuja where eminent Nigerians spoke on the project. The members of the group came from all the 36 states and the FCT to identify with the project. The reception was massive. Every Nigerian has positive things to gain from the Tinubu presidency.

“Among those in attendance were a former Governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima; a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, and the Speaker of Kano State House of Assembly (Hamisu Chidari). So, we are moving.”

On the submission by a former Governor of Niger State, Babangida Aliyu, that Osinbajo remained the best presidential candidate for the APC, Adeyanju said, “Aliyu is not a member of the ruling party; he belongs to the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party. His intention is to deceive Nigerians and foist an unpopular candidate on the APC so that the PDP would be able to overrun us.

“We are not taking him seriously and we will appeal to the former governor to either mind his business or defect to the APC in order to have a say in who becomes the candidate of the APC in the forthcoming presidential election or party primary. For now, he should take his advice to the PDP where he belongs.”
READ ALSO: Osinbajo cautions supporters against attack on Tinubu

Asked whether the Tinubu camp was threatened by Osinbajo even though he had yet to declare, Adeyanju said, “We don’t want to respond to what I can refer to as beer parlour gist. Until the vice-president openly declares his interest, we won’t talk about him. We are not aware of his intention yet.”

On whether the project is also receiving attention and support from the ministers and those in government, Adeyanju said it would be wrong for the Support Group to disclose those supporting them in government.

He added, “We cannot openly disclose those backing us or those supporting us in government. All we can say is that Asiwaju’s project is a national project that is gaining momentum all over the country. He has donated N50m to the Niger State Government in its fight against insecurity. Forget any other person who is claiming to have any national support like Tinubu.”

Meanwhile, the Osinbajo for President Support Group has said Buhari’s body language or influence will determine who wins the APC presidential ticket. The group also affirmed that the vice-president would contest the election.

Though the group said the vice-president had yet to speak on his aspiration, it said its members had sampled the opinion of Nigerians across party lines and that they were rooting for him to succeed the president in 2023.

The Convener and National Coordinator of the group, Ben Akinbobola, who spoke with Sunday PUNCH, said it was wrong for people to advise the vice-president not to join the presidential race because Tinubu already showed interest.

Akinbobola said, “Osinbajo is an adult, who became a professor of law before the age of 40. He is an intellectual and I think it is absolutely wrong for someone to think such a man should wait on a fellow human being to direct him.

“Is it possible for a governor to win an election without the cooperation of others? Is it also possible for him to become the commissioner in all the ministries in his state and chair all the boards in the state?

“Definitely, there must be division of labour and people who contribute to elections will be compensated and given positions.

“The late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, is credited with so many successes in the Western Region. Do you know he was not the originator of free education that made him popular within and outside Nigeria? That programme was said to have been an idea of one of his lieutenants. I also think it is ungodly to tie one’s success to someone when we all know that Osinbajo is not a poor man and not a dullard.”

Asked if the vice-president had told the members of the group that he would be running, Akinbobola said no, “but we had contact and all I can say is that Osinbajo is running for the position of the president in 2023.”

On who would win between Tinubu and Osinbajo, he said, “It depends on the APC and the position to be taken by the President. His influence is very important in the battle ahead. When we know where the President is going, then we can conveniently say who is winning. But as for our principal, he has been tested and can be trusted.”

He also said he was sure there “are many ministers and governors rooting for Osinbajo. When the time comes, you will know them.”

–





Share this on WhatsApp