Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Senator Rochas Okorocha, former Governor of Imo State, on Tuesday ridiculed Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State over his failure to reveal sponsors of unknown gunmen in the state, despite his threat.
The former governor in a statement titled: Whose account or report do we believe? – noted whether people should believe “that of Governor Hope Uzodinma or that of his Chief Press Secretary.” He declared that “the CAMPHOPE government in Imo has become an embarrassment.”
Okorocha, currently, Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District in the national Assembly, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo, declared that “Governor Hope Uzodinma had ended his much-orchestrated stakeholders meeting on Tuesday, January 4, 2022, and at the end of the day, he failed or refused to name the Sponsors of Insecurity in the State, and after much noise to that effect before the meeting.”
Governor Uzodinma was quoted to have declared that he would “allow security agencies to investigate the culprits and bring them to book.”
The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Uzodinma, Oguwuike Nwachukwu, had, before the stakeholders meeting, named some people in his Press release, as the Sponsors of Insecurity in the State, including Senator Rochas Okorocha and Ugwumba Uche Nwosu.
“The CPS was not conscious of contradicting his principal. And that was what happened.
“That is to say, on Monday, January 3, 2022, the governor, through his Press Secretary, had mentioned some names as sponsors of insecurity in the state.
“And a day after, precisely, on Tuesday, January 4, 2022, the same governor said he won’t mention the sponsors of insecurity in Imo again;” and said, he “would allow security agencies to investigate the culprits and bring them to book,” Okorocha highlighted.
The former governor declared: “Yet, we won’t fail to ask: Whose report or account do we believe? Governor Uzodinma’s account or that of his Chief Press Secretary?
“The CampHope government has made Imo State a laughing stock. The government has become a nightmare to itself. And an embarrassment to Imo State and her people.
“Otherwise, there is no reason a CPS could not have waited for the man who engaged him, to have his Stakeholders meeting, and then take off from there.
“For us, since Governor Uzodinma had failed or refused to mention the alleged Sponsors of insecurity in the State, at the Stakeholders meeting, we leave it at that.
“We won’t begin to pursue what a CPS wrote, out of fear or curiosity or both.”
Share this on WhatsApp