Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Recently the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Boris Johnson announced that the country is dropping all COVID restrictions, including the mandatory COVID passes.
The prime minister said masks would no longer be required anywhere. Not in shops, not on public transport, not in schools, not outside. Better yet, the removal of masks in schools is effective today.
What happened? Why the sudden reversal of policy in one of the countries that supported some of the most draconian pandemic policies?
On December 30, prestigious medical journal The Lancet published the results of a study that demonstrated that 89% of new U.K. COVID cases were among those fully vaccinated. 89%!
It went one step further to highlight the vaccinated population as a source of transmission of COVID-19.
READ ALSO: Netherlands joins UK, others, eases COVID restrictions
The research went even further, “The COVID-19 case rate per 100,000 was higher among the subgroup of the vaccinated compared to the subgroup of the unvaccinated.”
“Fourteen fully vaccinated patients became severely ill or died, the two unvaccinated patients developed mild disease. It appears to be grossly negligent to ignore the vaccinated population as a possible and relevant source of transmission when deciding about public health control measures.”
The data was irrefutable. No matter what the U.K. tried over the last two years, absolutely nothing stopped the spread. Remote work didn’t work, sanitizing our hands didn’t work, masking didn’t work, vaccine passports didn’t work, and most certainly the COVID-19 “vaccines” didn’t stop the spread.
And almost as if in coordination, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the U.S. released new research that demonstrated that people who had previously been infected with COVID-19 and recovered were better protected against the Delta variant than those who are vaccinated alone.
READ ALSO: WHO backtracks on COVID mandates, advises nations to ease restrictions
In a shocking admission from the epicenter of COVID fearmongering, The New York Times stated yesterday, “Unvaccinated people with a history of COVID also had lower rates of infection and hospitalization than those protected by vaccines alone.” It went further, saying, “The data are consistent with trends observed in international studies.”
We’ve known that those vaccinated still catch and transmit COVID-19 to others. It’s the spread of Omicron that has made this fact so obvious. We’ve experienced it in our own lives and networks of friends, family, and colleagues.
The U.K. now joins Sweden, which was the stalwart of logic in successfully employing evidence-based policy decisions based on scientific research, not political narratives. Sweden has proven to be an incredible model throughout the pandemic. Thankfully, at least one country got it right. I hope other countries will learn from it.


Share this on WhatsApp