Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A group of Delta indigenes living outside the shores of Nigeria have endorsed the candidature of Deacon (Barr.) Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, the current Deputy Governor of Delta State as the next governor of the state.
In a statement jointly signed by Preye Nikade and Jennifer Nebimere Borel, National Coordinator and Secretary respectively of Deltans In Diaspora, the group said over the past few months, it has watched closely the happenings in Delta State especially the build-up towards the 2023 Governorship election.
“We have keenly observed all the candidates. Most of these candidates are individuals we are familiar with and come in contact with within the course of discharging our duties.
“We have also listened to public sentiments and the individual perspectives of these candidates especially as it relates to the future of Delta.
“We want to put on record and publicly endorse the candidature of His Excellency, Dear (Barr.) Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, the current Deputy Governor of Delta State. This decision follows wide consultations and endorsements by all our members across the world.
READ ALSO: Otuaro promises govt’s support to victims, families of Okpanam collapsed building
“According to the various memos that we receive to arrive at this decision; the personality and leadership style of the Deputy Governor is rare and is critical to the future of Delta. These memos on various occasions described him as an honest, pragmatic, and visionary leader with a great sense of community who is one of the major factors behind the laudable achievements made by the Senator (Dr.) Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa led administration.
“The memos further elucidated the problem-solving ability of the candidate and his proven willingness to examine the issues and listen closely to the public’s questions and concerns.
The group stated that these attributes set apart the candidature of Deacon (Barr.) Kingsley Burutu Otuaro from all other candidates. “Consequently, we are glad to express our support for the campaign of the candidature of Deacon (Barr.) Kingsley Burutu Otuaro and his campaign.
“We hope that this endorsement will further inspire the candidate and make him understand how his personality and exceptional policy thrust of an industrialization is resonating with all Deltans across the world.”

Share this on WhatsApp