Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN at the weekend in Azare, Bauchi State, reaffirmed the unity and corporate existence of Nigeria, stating that pressures from ethnicity and religion cannot disintegrate the country.
Professor Yemi Osinbajo, SAN after attending the wedding ceremony of former Ms. Fatima Adamu, (the daughter of Mallam Adamu Adamu, Minister of Education), in Azare, Bauchi State, made a stopover courtesy visit to the Emir of Katagum, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Umar Farouk.  The Emir had commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the major projects completed in Bauchi State and across the country.
The Emir of Katagum, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Umar Farouk, had stated: “I wish to, on behalf of our people, express our gratitude to Mr. President for all the projects that he was able to complete.” He noted the Kano-Maiduguri Road project that passes through Azare, and the siting of the University of Medical Sciences in Bauchi State, beside others.
Emir Farouk thanked President Buhari for appointing two ministers from Katagum Emirate – the education minister, and the Minister of State for Industry, Trade, and Investment.
Vice President Osinbajo emphasized that the roll call of guests at the wedding showed evidence of Nigeria’s indivisibility irrespective of ethnicity, religion, and class pressures.
According to Osinbajo: “this is one occasion where you will find that our country is truly a united country and that nothing can separate this country, not ethnicity or religion or class. There is nothing that can separate this country. In fact, this is excellent evidence of the fact that this country is united.”
Vice President Osinbajo noted that the Emir of Katagum has accommodated people from all parts of Nigeria and ensured unity of all residents of the emirate. “Katagum Emirate is a place where your Royal Highness has continuously demonstrated the willingness to accommodate people from all parts of the country.
“Every one of us is here because of our personal relationship with you, this is the way leadership should be.”
Governor Bala Mohammed had commended Vice President Osinbajo for his love for the people and most importantly, his leadership qualities.
Governor Bala Mohammed had stated: “the people and government of Bauchi State are extremely grateful to you in particular. We know how you defied all the odds to come here from a foreign trip and this morning prepared to come here. This is the amount and the testimony of the respect you have for all of us, not just Mallam Adamu Adamu.
“Thank you very much sir, you have distinguished yourself as a leader defying all the odds. I remember you came and attended my daughter’s wedding. That was very refined and it was very unique.”
Other eminent personalities in attendance at the wedding include the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Governors Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State, Babagana Zulum of Borno State, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State. Simon Lalong of Plateau State, Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State.
The founding Interim National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Bisi Akande, and APC national leader, Ashiwaju Bola Tinubu, were also in attendance at the wedding.
Others include Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation; Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture; Ali Isa Pantami, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy.
Share this on WhatsApp