Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






Beans and plantain are a popular food combo in many parts of the world especially in African. It is a delicious dish you’ll hardly find anyone resists.
In Nigeria, beans and plantain is a common food. There are different ways in which beans and plantain are eaten in Nigeria. Beans could be cooked with boiled plantains, or eaten with fried plantains. The uncommon one is beans and roasted plantain, also known as beans and boli.
Beans are high in amino acids, which are the building blocks of protein. It is also very rich in fiber, folate, potassium, iron, vitamin C, magnesium, and antioxidants.
Plantains, on the other hand, are rich in carbohydrates, potassium, magnesium, vitamin C, vitamin A, and fiber.
Whichever way you choose to enjoy this delicious food combo, you can be rest assured that you are eating something very healthy and nutritious.
In this article, we will discuss the health benefits of eating beans with plantain
1. Improves Heart Health
Beans and plantain contain a high amount of potassium, in which potassium is needed for maintaining the cell and body fluids that control your heart rate and blood pressure.
In addition, this foods have been said to increase HDL (good) cholesterol levels and reduce blood pressure and inflammation, which in turn keeps your heart functioning optimally. Other medical studies have shown that eating beans can help reduce the risk of developing heart diseases.
2. Boost Your Immune System
To strengthen your immune system, you need to eat healthy foods. One of such foods are; beans and plantain. They are both rich in antioxidants such as Vitamin C.
Pinto beans contain a particular antioxidant called kaempferol, which can help in fighting cancerous cells. Beans are also rich in polyphenols, a type of antioxidant.

3. Prevents Fatty Liver
Fatty liver is a condition that occurs when fats accumulate in the liver. The risk of developing fatty liver increases with obesity, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure.
To prevent this, nutritionists suggest eating foods that aids weight loss, controls blood sugars, as well as reduce blood levels of fats, or bad cholesterol. Beans and plantains fit these criteria as they are a great source of healthy fats.
4. Controls Blood Sugar Levels
Beans are high in fiber, and also have a very low glycemic index (GI). The same can be said of plantain which has a low glycemic index.
Foods with low glycemic index raise blood sugar slowly, which is vital for managing diabetes. Hence, eating beans and plantains can lower blood sugar levels. Beans may also help stabilize blood glucose levels or even prevent diabetes
Note that unripe plantains have lower sugar content than ripe plantains.
5. Support Digestive Health
Beans and plantains are both good for the digestive system. They both contain lots of fiber, and foods rich in fiber support the digestive system.
Fiber plays an important role in digestive health. Fiber acts as a fuel for the colon cells to keep them healthy. Fiber keeps the digestive process flowing, by ensuring that your bowel movements are soft and regular. Eating beans and fried plantain will give you the highest amount of fiber.
Finally, Beans and plantain are a fantastic food combination, with various nutrients and health benefits. The health benefits of beans and plantain are amazing.
They help support digestion, boost the immune system, and prevent fatty liver. You should definitely add beans and plantain to your diet.






Share this on WhatsApp