Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveLagos Court orders Nigerian Navy to pay entitlements of late Ndubuisi Kanu.
An Ikeja High Court has ordered the Nigerian Navy to pay the entitlements of a former Military Administrator of Lagos and Imo, the late Rear Adm. Ndubuisi Kanu, to a dedicated interest-yielding account.
Justice Christopher Balogun gave the order on Monday in Lagos.
The National Daily reports that Balogun gave the order in an ongoing suit filed by one of the spouses of the deceased, Mrs. Gladys Kanu, seeking that the Nigerian Navy should calculate the entitlements of the late Kanu and pay them.
In the suit marked LD/3685FPM/2021, Gladys is also seeking to be declared as the only widow of the former military administrator.
Gladys is also seeking an order of the court to declare that she is the only woman legally married to the late Kanu.
According to her, she and the deceased were co-habiting until his death.
Gladys said that she was married to Kanu for 27 years but was in a relationship with him for 31 years.
Respondents in the suit are Nigerian Navy, children of the deceased.
The children are – Kelly Kanu, Simone Abiona (nee Kanu), and Andrey Joe- Ezigbo (nee Kanu).
The others are Paula Ndidiamaka Kanu, Karen Johnson (nee Kanu), Jeffery Kanu, Laura Kanu and Stephen Kanu.
Two other wives of the late naval chief, Josephine Ndubuisi-Kanu and Christine Kanu, are also respondents in the suit.
During Monday’s proceedings, counsel to the Nigerian Navy, Mrs. C. G. Cirbam, told the court that she filed an application before the court to remove Nigerian Navy from the list of respondents since the burial of Kanu had been conducted.
Her submission was, however, opposed by the claimant’s counsel, Mr. O.Owoh, who informed the court that the Nigerian Navy could not be struck out from the list of respondents because it was still holding the entitlements of the deceased.
The judge, Balogun, granted an accelerated hearing in the suit.
The judge held that the deceased had three wives who bore children for him.
He said that according to the Administration of Estates Law of Lagos State, all the 10 offsprings of Kanu were his legitimate children and were entitled to benefits from his estate.
Kanu died in Lagos on Jan. 13, 2021, at the age of 77 as a result of COVID-19 complications.
After his death, there was a family dispute about how the funeral should be conducted.
The dispute was resolved by the court on Oct. 11, 2021.
There is an ongoing dispute in his family regarding the administration of his estate.
The case has been adjourned until Feb. 7 for a continuation of hearing.
Share this on WhatsApp