Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePelumi Olajengbesi, one of the lawyers on Sunday Adeyemo Igboho’s payroll and the Ilana Omo Oodua are doing battle with each other.
The Abuja –based lawyer had to step out of the team in a Facebook post after the Yoruba nation agitators lambasted him for lobbying President Muhammadu Buhari for the release of wanted Igboho detained for forgery on his way out of Benin Republic alst August.
All the exchange took place on Sunday.
According to the managing partner of the Law Corridor, he is not a Yoruba nation agitator, and he doesn’t associate with the group.
“As a firm, we are satisfied with our little best in contributing to providing legal solutions and representations to Chief Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho) and associated Yoruba Nation agitators as far as ensuring the protection and enforcement of their rights in this matter,” he said in the post.
“We were able to secure the release of 12 persons brutally and unlawfully arrested by the reckless State Security Service (SSS), and also secured the release of an innocent herbalist equally unlawfully arrested and detained by the SSS.
“We have two persons with on-going terrorism trials at the Federal High Court and our firm will dutifully continue and close the trial having commenced their matter.
“While thanking everyone, particularly Chief Yomi Aliyu SAN for the opportunity and freehand service, Dr. Olasupo Ojo for his fair leadership and Chief Femi Falana for allowing his industry to be tapped and for the moral support, I most respectfully wish to now step aside.
“I have stated ab initio that the scope of my work will only be within the purview of my professional duty as a lawyer to Sunday Igboho and his aides.
“I am a strong believer in constitutional democracy, civil liberty and human rights which includes the right to self-determination but I am not a Yoruba nation agitator nor a member of any like organisation.
“My reaction to Prof. Akintoye was not to undermine the Yoruba struggle but is based off my personal convictions which I am entitled to.
“I do hope my friends in the struggle will allow me enjoy the benefit of my right to such a choice as a person of thought and conscience.”
Share this on WhatsApp