Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Justice Daniel Osiagor of the Federal High Court in Lagos on Monday charged social media comedian, Joshua Sunday also known as ‘De General’ to go and sin no more after he was brought before the court on drug trafficking charges.
‘D General’, who is also a social media influencer, was dragged to court by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), alongside Caleb William, a cinematographer.
Delivering judgment, Justice Daniel Osiagor held that the volume of substance was minimal and would rather convict the defendants and caution them, rather than sentence them.
The court consequently convicted the defendants and cautioned them to “go and sin no more”.
READ ALSO: NDLEA opens up on why popular comedian DeGeneral was arrested
Both defendants, 22, were charged with three counts of trafficking Tramadol and Cannabis Sativa, to which they both pleaded guilty.
After their pleas, the prosecutor, Jeremiah Aernan, reviewed the facts of the case and tendered evidence before the court through an NDLEA exhibit keeper, Lucky Oghaifu.
Among the evidence tendered include statements of the defendants, drug analysis form, certificate of test analysis, request for scientific aid form, and packaging of substance form among others.
He urged the court to be guided by the provisions of Section 356(2) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act and convict the defendants based on their pleas as well as evidence adduced by the prosecution.
According to the charge, the defendants were said to have committed the offence on January 12.
The prosecutor said the offence contravenes the provision of Section 11(c) of the NDLEA Act, Cap N30, Laws of the Federation, 2004.
READ ALSO: NDLEA swoops on home of popular skitmaker, DeGeneral  (Video)
In response, the defence counsel, Lilian Omotunde, urged the court to consider other options besides sentencing the defendants, on the grounds that the defendants were still at their prime and could still be useful to society.
During interrogations by the court, the defendants told the court that they had never tasted drugs.
They told the court that the substances were used as props for their comedy skit, which they were in the process of shooting before their arrest.
Share this on WhatsApp