Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
There was a mild drama as coroner commenced inquest into the death of Sylvester Oromoni (Jnr), a student of Dowen College, Lagos, on Saturday, as counsels to the various parties expressed divergent views during the proceedings. The coroner had for the purpose of transparency cautioned against public comments during investigations. The inquest had been ordered following controversial autopsy reports and that declaration by the Lagos State government, including the state Police Command, that Sylvester died natural death, and released all suspects being prosecuted for the sudden death of the boy.
Magistrate Mikail Kadiri, the Coroner, at the opening of the inquest at the Magistrate Court sitting in the Epe, Lagos State, on Saturday, admonished all parties in the matter to desist from any public comments so as not to influence or cause distractions on the proceedings.
Counsel to the Oromoni family, Femi Falana (SAN), was not opposed to the order of the coroner. He emphasized that the coroner should be in control of the entire proceedings “without any external influence.”
Falana acknowledged that only the court is competent to speak authoritatively on the cause of death, noting that he will notify the family of the decease.
Falana notified the court that the requests of his client to the Chief Pathologist of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and the state Commissioner of Police, for copies of all reports and statements obtained during the police investigation and medical examination on the late Sylvester Oromoni Jnr have not been granted.
Speaking for the Lagos State Police Command, Chief Superintendent of Police, (CSP) Oseni Rasak, said that he is unaware if the Commissioner of Police has issued any directive on the issue.
Counsel to the Lagos State Ministry of Justice, Akingbola George, disagreed with Falana that the legal advice exonerating the Dowen College staff members and students was leaked to the media. Akingbola George asserted that the Directorate of Public Prosecution submitted the legal advice to the Police State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti, and the court as required. He maintained that “anyone interested could apply through those quarters for a copy.”
A witness at the proceedings, Associate Professor Sunday Soyemi, Chief Pathologist of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), agreed with counsel to the Lagos State government on the transmission of the legal advice. Professor Soyemi also stated that the autopsy report had been sent to the coroner who ordered the inquest.
Counsel to Dowen College, Anthony Kpokpo, has said that the student died in Delta State. The Delta State government had in its autopsy report said that Sylvester Oromoni Jnr died of poisoning, but the Lagos State government report indicated he died natural death.
Counsels to the five students cleared of any complicity by the DPP over the student’s made appearance in court. They include Mrs. Ifeoma Esom, representing Michael Kashamu; Imah Ayi-Ekpenyong, representing Benjamin Favour; Izuchukwu Ohajinwa, representing Anselm Temide; Eze Ajiboh, representing Edward Begue; and Olumide Akinnini, representing Kenneth Inyang.
The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) was represented by Bernard Onigah; the Association had sought to be joined in the matter as an interested party on grounds of public interest.
Magistrate Kadiri, thereafter, directed the police to release to all parties, copies of statements gathered during the investigation, immediately.
The Magistrate further ordered all interested counsels to send necessary applications for the certified true copies of all relevant documents in the possession of the court.
The coroner, Magistrate Kadiri, promised to consider the request of the Oromoni family for the inspection of the facilities of Dowen College and the sickbay where late Sylvester was allegedly treated in November 2021 before he sent to his parents.
The coroner, then, adjourned proceedings to January 21, 27, and 28, to enable Falana to present the evidence of his witnesses.
 
Share this on WhatsApp