Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
After months of assassination of the President of Haiti, a senator suspected to be involved in the assassination, was on Friday arrested in Jamaica. The Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF) in a statement on Saturday, disclosed that former Senator Jean Joel Joseph, who was declared wanted after the assassination of President Jovenel Moise of Haiti on July 7, 2021, was on Friday evening arrested at a house in St. Elizabeth, a parish in the southwest of the Island with three members of his family.
The Jamaica Constabulary Force (JCF) in the statement indicated that the Force can confirmed that a Haitian national, Jean Joel Joseph, and three members of his family were arrested in Jamaica on immigration-related charges.
National Daily learned that Jamaican investigators in diplomatic correspondence, was informed by Haiti that Jean Joel Joseph was declared “wanted in Haiti as a suspect in the alleged assassination of the Haitian President in 2021.”
The senator was said to be currently detained in Jamaica.
The Jamaican police were said to have collaborated with “international law enforcement partners.”
A commando of about 20 men had invaded the presidential residence in Haiti, where they opened fire on President Jovenel Moise in July, assassinated Moise, and inflicted severe injuries on his wife.
National Daily gathered that, since the assassination, over 40 people, including over a dozen Colombians and some Americans of Haitian origin, have been arrested for interrogation.
Senator Joseph, an opposition senator, was identified as an ardent critic of the President. The Haiti government, therefore, issued a warrant of arrest on Joseph after the assassination of the President, declaring the senator “armed and dangerous.”.
Since the assassination of the President, the Prime Minister of Haiti, Ariel Henry, has been coordinating the government of Haiti. Prime Minister Henry also revealed that during national day celebrations. there has been assassination attempt to eliminate him.
Share this on WhatsApp