Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


According to TVC News, the Governor of Rivers State, Governor Nyesom Wike, has rewarded a group for their help in catching a notorious criminal suspect identified as Bobosky. He fulfilled his promise of giving the sum of 30 million Naira to the group.

In the year 2019, Governor Nyesom Wike had put out the sum of N30 Million as a bounty for the capture of one criminal identified as Bobosky. Bobosky is identified as the gang leader of a notorious group in Rivers State.
Since 2019 Bobosky have been able to escape and prevent himself from getting arrested by the Police, he still went ahead to commit series of crimes. Bobosky carried on with his criminal activities, not knowing that one day be would be caught.

Luckily on September 12, 2020, Bobosky was tracked down to Tai LGA, Rivers State. He was tracked by a group of Vigilantes alongside some Police Men, he was arrested immediately he was caught.
Unfortunately one of the people that helped capture Bobosky died in the process. Bobosky had discovered that the Man was giving information to the Police. Another informant also had to relocate immediately for his safety.

Governor Nyesom Wike fulfilled his own end of the bargain, by giving out the sum of N30M to those that helped in the capture of Bobosky.
The Rivers State commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan confirmed this during an interview. He explained that the Governor has given the N30M to the Police Command, so they can give it to those informants that helped in catching Bobosky. Even the families of the death informant will benefit from the reward.
It was Tammy Danagogo, the secretary to the Rivers State Government that presented the N30M check to the Police, he did this on behalf of the Government. Tamil also went ahead to appreciate the Police and vigilante that helped capture Bobosky.
Placing bounty on criminals has to do with promising to give people money, if they help you catch and report a wanted criminal. This has been going on for quite a long time in different countries.
This move by Governor Nyesom Wike is actually a good and commendable one. The bounty money served as a form of motivation to those that helped capture Bobosky.
Below are a few benefits of Bounty on criminals;
1. Bounty puts pressure on criminals, they are forced to hide and move alot because they know they are wanted. These criminals will not be able to move about freely in the community, they would even be afraid of commiting crimes and getting caught.
Once a criminal is aware that he has a bounty on his head, he will definitely be scared because he knows anybody can rat him out. He won’t even be able to trust his own gang member because they can also sell him out.
2. Bounty helps motivate citizens to work with the police and help them catch wanted criminal. Since the citizens are aware that they will get rewarded for exposing a criminal, they will not think twice in reporting that criminal once caught.
The bounty can also serve as a motivation to Police officers and other security personnel to work hard.
3. Bounty can also help in the reduction of jungle justice in the country. Once people know that a criminal is worth a certain amount of money, they would rather report him to the police than to burn him to death.


Share this on WhatsApp