Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA teacher impregnates 16-year-old, elopes with her. The students father, Stanley Ejekwu, has cried out that a teacher who works with Life Abundant Primary/Secondary, Diobu in Port Harcourt, Rivers State got his 16-year-old daughter, an SS3 student of the school, pregnant and ran away with her.
According to PUNCH , Ekekwu alleged that his daughter’s teacher might have absconded with the teenager as a result of the pregnancy and appealed to the public to prevail on him to disclose her whereabouts.
Speaking with newsmen in Port Harcourt, Ejekwu disclosed that he saw a WhatsApp chat of a man with his daughter, where the suspect was asking the girl when they were going to have sex, as they had been dating for about six months.
Ejekwu explained that he called the man on the phone and warned him to desist from luring his daughter, unknown to him that the man was a teacher in her school.
The father of the teenager said the girl left the house in December 2021 after it was discovered that she was pregnant.
Ejekwu revealed that he went to the school to inform the proprietress to prevail on the teacher to disclose the whereabouts of his daughter and the teacher allegedly told the head of the school that he (teacher) has been communicating with the teenager after she left her father’s house.
He said he has reported the matter to Nkpolu Divisional Police headquarters, Mile 3 Diobu, for the police to help him prevail on the teacher to disclose the whereabouts of the daughter.
“I am suspecting the teacher impregnated my daughter and I suspect him over my daughter’s disappearance. Why is it that my daughter cannot contact any person in my house but the teacher? He forwarded my daughter’s number to me. I believe he is holding my 16-year-old daughter,” he said.
“The other pupils in the school told me that the food my daughter took to school, that she and this teacher ate them together every day in school.
“So, I went to the Mile 3 Police Station because I discovered that my daughter was pregnant and she ran away from the house. I saw a love message this man sent her and I called to warn him against what he was doing.
“Later, I found out she was pregnant. I asked her who impregnated her; she then ran away from the house.
“I called the school proprietor to report that my daughter was missing since last month and that the only person I was suspecting was a teacher in their school. Later, the owner of the school called me and confirmed that they had been communicating.
“That was why I went to the police station to ask them to help me find my daughter,” he stated.
However, the teacher, in an audio message obtained by PUNCH, denied knowledge of the student’s whereabouts.
“I don’t know anybody’s whereabouts. I heard about this matter when Mr Ekekwu came to the school to report that his daughter was pregnant and missing. But I don’t know anything about it,” he stated.
Share this on WhatsApp