Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


A good erectile function depends on a number of factors including age, overall health, hormone levels, nerves, blood flow, mental status, and emotions. When any of these factors are affected, a weak erection occurs.
The likelihood of a weak erection, known medically as Erectile dysfunction does increase with age, however, age is not the only cause of weak erection. Certain factors and conditions can also cause erectile dysfunction. These include:
Emotional Distress
Intimacy needs the mind and body working together. Erectile function can be affected by stress such as problems at work, relationship difficulties or financial worries. Psychiatric conditions, and feeling depressed or performance anxiety can also result in erectile dysfunction.

Medical Conditions
Erectile dysfunction is often associated with conditions that affect blood flow in the genital, such as diabetes, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, heart disease, multiple sclerosis, and Peyronie’s disease.
Side Effect Of Certain Medications
A number of medications, both prescription and otherwise, used to treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol, depression and psychiatric disorders, and prostate disease, may cause or worsen the symptoms of erectile dysfunction.
Lifestyle Choices
Lifestyle and nutrition have been recognized as central factors influencing both vascular nitric oxide (NO) production, testosterone levels, and erectile function. Smoking, lack of physical activity, wrong diets, overweight or obesity, metabolic syndrome, and excessive alcohol consumption, are all strongly associated with a reduced availability of nitric oxide (NO), which is the driving force of the blood genital flow.
Physical Injury
Injuries may result in erectile dysfunction (ED). For example, spinal cord injuries may damage the nerves that trigger erectile function. When these nerves no longer work, ED occurs. Bicycling for long periods of time can also reduce blood flow, resulting in ED. Pain medications given to men with injuries may also result in ED.
What Foods Can Help To Fight Weak Erection Naturally?
1. Watermelon
Watermelon contains citrulline, which dilates and relaxes the blood vessels, making it easier for blood to flow into the male organ.

2. Bananas
Bananas are rich in potassium which helps to boost testosterone production and improve your action in bed naturally.

3. Garlic And Onions
Garlic and onions are one of the best natural remedies for cardiovascular and vascular problems, as they enable more blood flow into your genital and help you achieve a stronger erection.
4. Red Hot Peppers
The capsaicin found in hot peppers may benefit your genital, as well as the rest of the organs in your circulatory system, and lead to an overall healthier lifestyle.
5. Citrus Fruits
Oranges, lemons, grapefruits etc, are packed with flavonoids that encourage the flow of blood, and allow the male organ to become engorged.

6. Spinach And Other Leafy Green Vegetables
The nitrates in spinach and other leafy greens, like kale and arugula, serve not just as foods for penile health but for your entire vascular system, as they allow your arteries to expand and fill up with blood.

7. Dark Chocolate
Dark chocolate is a top food for strong erection because it is packed with flavanols, which make it easier for blood to flow through the body.

8. Nuts
Certain nuts, such as walnuts and almonds, are rich in high-density lipoprotein (HDL), otherwise known as “good cholesterol”, which may help keep your arteries and blood vessels healthy, and allow the flow of blood to your organs, including your privates.
9. Fatty Fish
Fatty fish like salmon is one of the best foods to help get erect because it is rich in omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D.

10. Turmeric
Increased blood flow is one of turmeric’s many health benefits. It ha strong anti-inflammatory properties that can help fight erectile dysfunction caused by inflammation.



Share this on WhatsApp