Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
A renowned Igbo Chieftain in Jos, Dr. Faith Onyema has called on South-eastern politicians to lobby other parts of Nigeria if they want to take over power in 2023.
Dr. Onyema who is an Igbo Chief and the leader of Igbo natives in Jos-south Local Government Area of Plateau State, said the region should not think they can relax and wait for the number one seat in the country to come to them.
“You have to make contacts, strategies, lobby for it and by so doing they would have demonstrated wisdom”.
Onyema was speaking in Jos, at the weekend, when he beared his thoughts with our correspondent on the possibilities of the south easterners producing the next president of Nigeria.
It would be noted that the debate for a Southeastern president come 2023, has enjoyed favoritism in political discuss, owing to the fact that rotational presidency was a gentleman agreement in the country.
The agreement was fashioned to keep together a country that is polarised along ethnic, religious and tribal lines.
However, Onyema holds the view that the Igbos should not see it as a right, calling on Southeastern leaders and elites to come together devoid of any selfishness and speak with one voice.
He said though the North and other parts of Southern Nigeria are also clamoring for the presidency, an act he said demonstrates democracy, adding that other zones are doing so because the southeast have refused to put their house together.
“I blame the southeast for not demonstrating enough willingness to produce the next president come 2023, and that is why other zones in the country are clamoring for it.
“Igbos should not think they can keep quiet and get power on a platter of gold. Every Nigerian politician will want to clinch power and if the southeast relents, any region can get it”, Onyema said.
He however opined that the country need a change of government, adding that only an Igbo man who is naturally talented in commerce and industry can give Nigerians that desired change.
“Nigeria will turn around with an Igbo man being the president, with its uncommon knowledge in business. Even former President Goodluck Jonathan who has some Igbo blood in him, grew the country’s economy.
“I call on Igbo leaders to come together and come up with a sellable candidate, work with other parts of the country and take over power in 2023”.
Share this on WhatsApp