Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The proposed meeting between President Buhari, and all the 2023 presidential aspirants under the All Progressives Congress (APC), is no longer a secret to the public. Recall that for a while now, notable members of the party, particularly those from the Southern part of Nigeria, have begun to declare their intentions to run for President in 2023.
Notable among these APC bigwigs are the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Senator Rochas Okorocha, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi state, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. These individuals have continued to strategize on how best to penetrate other top members of the APC, and possibly emerge as the party’s flag-bearer for the 2023 presidential election.
As a result of interest from multiple members of the APC, and the internal wrangling within the party, there has been tension, particularly as the party prepares for its National Convention. The multiple interests in the party’s 2023 presidential ticket, could make or mar the APC ahead of the 2023 presidential election. This can be argued to be one of the reasons for the proposed meeting between President Buhari, and all the 2023 presidential aspirants under the party.

Despite the need to foster unity among the party’s 2023 presidential aspirants, the fate of Tinubu’s 2023 ambitions, may depend on the outcome of the meeting. The reason is that no one can boldly say that this is exactly what the President aims to discuss with the aspirants. As such, one should not rule out the likelihood that he could use the opportunity to disclose his preferred candidate, and also urge others to support him.
Should this ever be the case, and Bola Tinubu fails to emerge as President Buhari’s preferred candidate for the 2023 presidential election, the APC Leader’s 2023 ambitions could be negatively impacted. This is due to the fact that the President is a very influential member of the party, and his position could see more members of the APC, deserting Tinubu’s camp, to support Buhari’s preferred candidate.

Arguably, in consideration of the APC quest to retain power at the centre beyond 2023, and the likelihood that the 2023 presidential ambitions of many members of the party could lead to disputes, some members of the party will be looking up to the President, to use his position, and intervene on behalf of the APC. However, depending on his position, the 2023 presidential ambitions of Bola Tinubu, may either receive a boost, or be impacted negatively.


Share this on WhatsApp