Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Repairing a car is a profession on its own but there are some basic things you can repair in your car without going to the mechanic. These will help you save money and time going to the mechanic workshop. Read on to learn about some basic car repairs you can handle yourself.

Changing a Car Battery

The first mentality I want you to kill in your head is that car batteries can shock you. Car batteries cannot electrocute you because it is just 12Volts and a direct current flow.
The process: The first thing to do is to remove the cables that are connected to your battery. Every car has a positive and negative terminals. You can do this by first loosening the bolts that were used to tighten the cables to the terminals. Make sure you remove the black cable first. This cable is often the one connected to the negative terminal. Replace the old battery with the new one, and reconnect all cable clamps. Make sure you label the cables before you remove them.
2. Change Your Tyres
Replacing a tyre is an activity most car owners see as ‘big work’, but the reason why you should be able to do it yourself is that your tyre can run flat at any time of the day and anywhere on the surface of the earth where help would be hard to come by.

The process: Firstly, Bring out your Jack and Wheel Spanner, Unscrew the nuts on the flat tyre but not completely. Place a wedge in front and at the rear of the alternate tyre i.e the tyre just diagonal to the tyre that is flat. Jack the car to a height where the tyre is off the ground and your two palms can fit under the space, unscrew the nuts totally and take out the flat tyre. Fit in the new tyre/extra tyre. Screw up the nuts but not completely i.e don’t tighten it, release the jack completely, tighten the nuts on the new tyre till it locks. Remove the wedge and you are good to go.
3. Replace Your Wipers
Replacing your wipers is quite easy. However, you must first find a wiper that fits your windshield. Go to where they sell car parts and buy the specific replacement wipers for your car brand, model and model year.

The process: All you have to do is remove the old wipers. Some wipers can be removed by pulling a latch or pushing a button on the base of the wiper. Some others need some pinching and pulling. You can then fix in the new wipers.
4. Replace Your Headlights

Dim or broken headlights are not safe to use. You shouldn’t manage them like that. The moment you find out that your headlights aren’t as bright as they used to be, they need to be replaced. All you have to do is to buy the same headlight bulb that was designed for your own car make, model and year.

The process: Remove the screws connecting the headlight frame to the bracket, disconnecting the electrical connector, removing the faulty bulb and replacing it with a new one. plug the connector back on, and finally replacing the frame.
Note that: when you’re plugging in the new bulb, make sure you don’t do it with your bare hand. This could cause the bulb to not last for as long as it should.
5. Clean or Replace Your Engine Air Filter
The filter helps keep your car running efficiently and improves your heat and AC systems work properly. The filter should be free of impurities, debris and discoloration; if they look clogged or dirty, it’s time to replace them.
The process: Replacing your air filter is a simple process. All you have to do is to open your car bonnet, locate the air filter box and remove the old air filter, and replace it with the new one, exactly how the old one was.
6. Changing Spark Plugs
The spark plugs help ignite gasoline to power your vehicle.

The process : Locate your spark plug, remove the spark plug wire, remove the used spark plug, insert the new one, and plug back the wire.
Important Note and Conclusion
However, because you have basic knowledge about car repairs doesn’t mean you won’t be needing your mechanic anymore. It is just a way to reduce the money you spend on maintaining your car.


Share this on WhatsApp