Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The case of the rise and seeming fall of celebrated police officer, Abba Kyari, is one for the books. Not only is it sad, but also, it is bad for Nigeria.
From being celebrated for being the reason hardened criminals are behind bars, to getting accused of being guilty of just as much crime, is regrettably lugubrious to say the least.
This man led the Intelligence Response Team(IRT), and was the joy of lovers of peace and security in Nigeria. Well, all that are becoming a distant memory now.
When he was mentioned by a renowned yet-to-be convicted internet fraudster, Hushpuppi, as his cohort, many doubted.

It was seen as a calculated effort from criminals and malefactors to destroy a man causing them pain.Well, not until the NDLEA came around with their own allegations.
To cap it up, they provided video evidence to the bewilderment of all. It was the video of the very same super cop negotiating a drug deal. With this, they declared him wanted, arrested him and named him as one of the leaders of an international drug trafficking cartel.
Well, we can not undo what has been done. What then is important to note are the two reasons why Abba Kyari’s fall is bad for Nigeria.
1. Abba Kyari was celebrated by this present administration as the epitome of the fight against crime and corruption. With him being soiled in such criminality, it reflects poorly on the government of Nigeria. Critics of this administration are having a field day presently.
If the best of us is this crooked, what hope is there for us?. The world is watching, and with a respected and celebrated law enforcement officer embroiled in crime, it does not look good for Nigeria and Nigerians.
2. It puts all his cases, both closed and open in jeopardy. Criminals who alleged brutality in his methods will definitely have a case now, and the court can not help but listen. How can the judgement of a criminal be trusted?. His cases are all candidates for review.
This means that even genuine criminals like Evans the kidnap kingpin, might exploit this situation to escape justice for crimes his victims have testified to.
Evans has already started exploiting Kyari’s ordeals by saying that Mr. Kyari coerced him into confessing to be a kidnapper by extrajudicially executing people in his presence.

Generally, Abba Kyari’s fall is bad for Nigeria. He fell with even the genuine cases he closed. Of course, he put away hardcore criminals, but now, his cases need to be reviewed.
The video evidence from NDLEA, and the blacklist from FBI, are situations Abba Kyari is very unlikely to walk away from.


Share this on WhatsApp