Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Saturday raised alarm over the incessant operations of gunmen killing police officers and kidnapping people in southeast Nigeria. IPOB in a statement on Saturday by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, decried that Governor Uzodinma and security operatives are killing Igbo youths while Fulani bandits are killing people across the country and walking freely. Emma Powerful, in the statement, declared: “IPOB is out now to expose these atrocities committed by Hope Uzodinma, Nigeria Army and police including, Ebubeagu security outfit.
“It’s too appalling that Ebubeagu security outfit would join hands in killing our people and call the killers unknown gunmen. History will judge them all.”
Emma Powerful alleged that Governor Uzodimma and his group have destroyed lives and properties in several communities which include Oboh Umutanze, Attah, Okporo, Amaifeke, Ihioma, Ama-azu, Amannachi, Nnempi, Akata, Orsuihiteukwa, Umutanze.
Powerful, therefore, declared that it was imperative to call “Uzodinma and his gang to order and ask him why he used soldiers and police personnel to eliminate innocent Biafran youths”.
Emma Powerful also alleged that unclaimed corpses litter mortuaries in the southeast region, particularly, in Imo State; adding that the corpses are purportedly buried in mass graves or cremated with acid from time to time.
The statement reads in part, “We are asking Uzodinma and his APC, why do they derive joy in killing innocent Biafra youths in cold-blood while Fulani bandits and terrorists go unchallenged in their killing spree across Nigeria? What crime did Imo youths commit to deserve the ongoing secret genocide in the state?”
IPOB, therefore, solicited the intervention of international bodies and human right groups to conduct thorough investigations into perceived crime against humanity in the southeast. Emma Powerful maintained that the international bodies will confirm the allegations raised by the group in their investigations.
IPOB also claimed that the constant killing of Biafra youths had turned those areas into ghost communities. People no longer feel safe to habit their villages, it was noted.
IPOB stated: “We call on the United Nations, America, British High Commissioner, Israeli Ambassador, German Ambassador, French Ambassador, Canadian Ambassador, Japanese Ambassador, Australian Ambassador, Amnesty International, Intersociety groups, Human Rights Watch, and all Human Rights Organisations across the globe to send investigation teams to these communities and find out what the situation is.
“They will confirm to their amazement that nobody is dwelling in these communities. The youths and people have been indiscriminately and mercilessly killed by the Fulani terrorist soldiers deployed in Imo State by the Federal Government in collaboration with Hope Uzodinma.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp