Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveCAN urges youths to be hard working, creative for future’s sake.
 
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged Nigerian youths to focus on hard work and creativity for tomorrow’s betterment and shun the “crazy idea of get-rich-quick-syndrome” of today.
The Chairman of CAN, South-East, Rev. Fr. Abraham Nwali, made the call on Friday after delivering a presentation, themed: “Problem of Drug Addiction and Get-Rich-Quick as Factors Destroying Our Youths”.
The presentation was made at a one-day Youth Wing Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN), South-East Christian Youth Leaders Prayer Summit, tagged: “YOWICAN Enugu 2022”.
Nwali noted that youths must strive to be creative and pursue a profession, which would contribute to the present and future wellbeing of the society, instead of seeking unguarded and undisciplined wealth that might consume them.
According to him, “be hard working, creative for tomorrow’s sake, not for today. Focus on becoming someone great tomorrow by finding solutions to societal challenges or pursuing a profession and be a master in it”.
The chairman said: “Youths should exercise patience, be thorough and hard working with what they are doing today as well as fear God and put Him first.
“Youths should not be deceived. God is the One that owes tomorrow and genuine wealth.
“So, be diligent and committed to all you have to do today, be focused and have an ambition you are pursuing while you fear and worship God.
“In the fullness of time, God that rewards hard work, creativity and perseverance will surely reward you beyond whatever you have imagined. Learn from all great men in history, they did not make it overnight”.
He urged youths to shun all forms of drug abuse and use of hard drugs as well as keep away from bad friends and peers that are into drug abuse/hard drug use.
Nwali called on all tiers of government to make employment and skill acquisition provisions for youths, adding that the youths need encouragement and motivation to bring out the best in them.
The cleric also called on youths to desist from collecting money from politicians during elections; thereby mortgaging their future and voting for wrong candidates who do not have any plans for their progress.
On insecurity in the South East, he said that the leaders of the zone must come out and speak with one voice to end the growing menace.
On President of South East extraction come 2023, Nwali said that he believed in justice and fairness, adding: “It is indeed the turn of the South East to produce the next President of Nigeria.
“However, since we practice democratic rule that deals with numbers, the zone needs to dialogue and consult with other zones to achieve this and it is worth doing,” he said.
Speaking, the Zonal Chairman of YOWICAN, Rev. Oluchukwu Onuigwe, said that the prayer summit was necessary to pray out the nation from crises of insecurity, youths’ employment, and youths’ restiveness among others.
“We are here to pray for Nigeria. We need peace in all spheres of the nation for there to be progress and prospects for the youths to blossom,” Onuigwe said.
The summit featured an award of “YOWICAN Youth Ambassador” on Chief Lawrence Ughamadu, for his outstanding support to youth development in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp