Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Lagos State government has announced that all government officials involved in granting approval to the developer of the 21-storey building that collapsed on Gerrard Road, Ikoyi on November 1, 2021 as well as the Fourscore Homes Limited, the firm developing the building will face criminal prosecution.
At least 50 persons were killed in the tragedy which occurred last year. The owner of the firm Mr. Femi Osibona was reported dead in the accident too.
The state government in a white Paper also announced that the other two structures being simultaneously constructed in the vicinity are to be demolished because they failed structural integrity tests. They will be pulled down through controlled demolition.
READ ALSO: Yaba Building Collapse: Federal agencies take samples for analyses, keep mum on duration, further actions
The White Paper was prepared by the Lagos State government on the report submitted to it by the panel that probed the building collapse.
Twenty-six out of the 28 recommendations contained in the Report were accepted by the government.
The report which was submitted on January 5th, by the panel chairman Mr. Toyin Ayinde, who is a town planner, blamed the collapse on the erosion of professional ethics and disregard for due diligence.
The Lagos State government also added that the panel members during their investigations visited the project site for a general assessment; coordinated activities of the consultants who conducted tests on the site and reviewed documents from relevant Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs).
They also conducted interviews; interrogated 91 persons; collected 21 memoranda and accessed the remaining buildings being developed by the late Osibona.
READ ALSO: Ikoyi Collapsed Building: Lagos Assembly to tighten noose on LABSCA, others
The tribunal also hosted a representation of the developer’s company comprising two legal firms.
A new committee, which reviewed the tribunal’s 28 recommendations, was chaired by Commissioner for Special Duties Tayo Bamgbose-Martins.
The Head of Service (HoS), Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Moyosore Onigbanjo, and Agriculture Commissioner Mrs. Abisola Olusanya, served as members of the new committee.
The accepted 26 recommendations bothered individuals and institutions – both private and public.
The government accepted the recommendation that Fourscore Heights Limited, owners of the collapsed building, be prosecuted in view of the loss of lives involved in the tragedy.
The white paper frowned at a situation in which Fourscore was builder and architect – all rolled into one. For this, the tribunal concluded that Fourscore Heights did not do the right thing and their negligence led to the loss of lives.
The state government has since directed the Office of the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice to institute appropriate charges against the company.
For failing structural tests, the two 15-storey buildings have also been approved for demolition through controlled demolition technique, having been recommended for such by the tribunal and accepted to by the state government.
The White Paper also recommended the “evacuation of all occupants within a 45m radius from the extreme boundaries of the blocks in the interest of public safety.”
The document chided three town planners (civil servants) who were said to have lied on oath.
READ ALSO: Why victims of Ikoyi collapsed building may not get compensation – NIA
According to the report, the three town planners were said to have authored a report using a consultancy firm’s name and claiming it was the firm that signed the papers for the collapsed building – all done without the knowledge of the firm’s owners. The three civil servants are to be prosecuted for preparing a consultant’s report through a dubious method.
However, one Oluwole Oludimu of Prowess Engineering Limited was highly commended for exhibiting the highest professionalism in challenging circumstances and standing firm despite intimidation by the developer and subsequent removal from the site by his firm.

Share this on WhatsApp