Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Some Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP may not support zoning of the Presidential ticket to any region or geopolitical zones in 2023.
It should be recalled that the PDP, had earlier made the Presidential ticket Open, to all the Presidential Aspirants, who might be interested to contest Presidential race under the Platform of the Party, irrespective of the region, they might belong to.
Meanwhile, Some Northern Presidential Aspirants, had declared their Presidential Ambition, to contest Presidential race under the Platform of PDP.
Among the northern Presidential Candidates who had declared their Interest to contest Presidential race, are Senator Bukola Saraki, Governor Aminu Tambuwal, Governor Bala Mohammed and the Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar.
ALSO READ: How Wike is unknowingly stepping on ‘powerful toes’ in PDP
Meanwhile, the former Senate President Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, is the only Presidential Aspirant from the South, especially in southeast. However, there have been several agitations, that Presidential ticket should be zoned to the southern region.
Meanwhile, some Leaders of the Party do not believe in zoning the Presidency, to any region in the country. One of the PDP Leader who may not support zoning of PDP Presidential Ticket, is Ebenezer Babatope.
It should be recalled that Babatope was the Former Minister of Aviation. He had interview with CHIDI OBINECHE, where he speaks on the zoning formula of PDP, as the 2023 Presidential Election draw nearer.
ALSO READ: Gbajabiamila denies fighting Tinubu’s battle in House investigation of Correctional Service under Aregbesola
He made it Known during the interview that PDP don’t have strict zoning formula. He stated further that, it is only the APC that got it, but they are running away from it now.
Ebenezer Babatope said APC, is very flexible about the zoning system of the Party. Chief Ebenezer Bapatope, made it Known that PDP, is strong in southeast, but APGA is the strongest Party.
If Chief Babatope could say this, it means PDP Leaders, may not follow the zoning system, to choose the Presidential Candidate of the Party in 2023.
It should be recalled that the National Chairman of the Party, was zoned to the North and the Leaders of the Party, made it Known that Presidential ticket will be made open to all Leaders of the Party, but some Leaders of the Party do not agree with it.


Share this on WhatsApp