Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Should the 2019 election appeal work in favour of the People’s Democratic Candidate, Atiku Abubakar come May, Nigeria may have to witness a new swing of power as the candidate who became second after Buhari was declared the winner in 2019, can become the new president of Nigeria. 

National Daily reports, a court of Appeal in Abuja is said to have adjourned the case which was asking for the removal of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd) as the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria while integrating Atiku Abubakar, till May 22.
Recall that after the general election in 2019, A Civil Society Observatory group had asked the court to declare the next candidate with the highest votes after Buhari, in the person of PDP presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar as the president, on the ground that President Buhari didn’t present the right certificates before the election.
The news, after its emergence, has generated lots of reactions from Nigerians, as many people are optimistic of what might likely happen if Atiku eventually wins the case.
I do not believe there should be any cause for worry as to what may likely happen if President Buhari loses the case to his nearest contestant Atiku in May, when the Court of Appeal will be sitting again; here below are the two major things that could only happen.
ALSO READ: Appeal to swear in Atiku as president adjourned

Atiku automatically becomes the president without election

In case the appeal by the Civil Society Observatory group (CSO) eventually goes in favour of the 2019 PDP Presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, what it simply means is that he will become the President automatically, while Major General Buhari (rtd) steps down as the Nigerian president. In that case, Atiku will have to complete Buhari’s tenure which is supposed to end by May 2023.
2. He can still contest the next election
Another thing that is bound to happen is that Atiku will still have the grace of naturally contesting for the next election come May 2023. This is because, according to the constitution he’s entitled to a second term rule.
However, Atiku doesn’t need to become the Nigerian President for the second time if does not win the election come 2023.


Share this on WhatsApp