Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Sports betting is booming over the years and millions of punters from all over the world love to bet on their favorite sports. Whether you are new to sports betting or have dabbed in it for a while, we’re sure that following our seven betting tips will help you win more bets. In this article, we will share some tricks and nuggets which will definitely help you in your gambling journey.
Compare the Online Bookmakers
The betting provider market is now saturated with hundreds of bookmakers. The number of online betting sites is increasing every week. However, it is very important to find out exactly what is hidden behind the respective bookmaker. A bookmaker comparison can help. There you can find out where the advantages and disadvantages of the betting provider lie and what you have to pay particular attention to. This way, you can separate the wheat from the chaff in advance and shortlist the best betting sites. 
InfoStriker is one of such sites in Nigeria which compares the different online bookmakers and review them thoroughly. It also provides live football odds and score. Head over to InfoStriker.com and compare live odds.
Claim the Welcome Bonus upon registration
Welcome betting bonus is extremely popular with the betting community and can be found in the portfolio of every reputable betting provider. You get this bonus after you have registered with a bookmaker and deposit a small amount. However, we would like to point out that every betting provider define their bonus offers differently. This refers on the one hand to the amount of the bonus and on the other hand to the turnover requirements that are associated with the respective betting bonus. You can usually find the information on the bookmaker’s website. Only after you have read this information, you should consider signing up with the bookmaker. 
Use the Bookmaker’s Sports Betting App
These days, it’s possible to place sports bets not only online, but also on your mobile from anywhere and at any time. Many betting providers have developed powerful betting apps and it is worthwhile using them. You can place bets online via smartphone or tablet without any problems. This comes in handy especially if you want to react live to current match developments. In addition, sports betting apps are becoming more and more popular among gamblers, which is why bookmakers are increasingly awarding mobile bonuses.
Always Bet with the Best Odds
You must have noticed that the odds vary between the betting providers. However, the odds can also fluctuate with the same bookmaker over a certain period of time. Thus, it can be observed that the odds keep decreasing especially towards the start of the match. The key here is to find the best time to pick up the best possible odds. A good gut feeling is crucial. But also a preliminary analysis without looking at the odds can be helpful to make an objective assessment. If this then matches the odds on offer, then it’s time to strike.
Have Multiple Betting Accounts with Different Bookmakers
For experienced bettors, this tip is nothing new. It is best to register with several betting sites because the betting odds vary from game to game. This way, you can always place your bet where you currently get the best odds and eventually get the highest profit. Furthermore, the betting bonus offers also differ but don’t overdo it: A handful of good bookmakers is sufficient.
Play Betting Slips without the Tax
Depending on the country you reside in, you may have to pay taxes on your winning amount on online gambling. It differs from country to country. For example, in Nigeria, there is a 20% flat tax on earnings from gambling. However, in UK, there is no tax on your income from betting or gambling. In some cases, the bookmaker pays the fee for you. Some online bookmakers practice this approach to attract new customers. But remain cautious as some providers allocate the loss to the odds, which are also bad. Here you have to weigh yourself which bookmaker offers the most profitable overall package.
Keep your Emotions in Check
Anyone who bets regularly knows that emotions can quickly overcome you. This is true for both successes and failures. If you win several bets in a row, you become overconfident. On the other hand, the danger of wanting to retrieve lost money rashly increases during prolonged phases of loss. In both cases, the consequences can be quite dire. Therefore, be patient and take a break from betting if things go too well or too badly. Keeping your emotions under control may even be the decisive key to long-term success in online sports betting.
Conclusion
These are our top seven betting tips that will surely help you in your betting journey. Experience is the most important factor in gambling and with the passage of time, you will learn to manage your betting account properly. Always keep a cool head while placing bets, make a thorough analysis and stay updated with current news. We hope that you enjoyed these useful tips and will act on them. 
Share this on WhatsApp