Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Thomas Tuchel is leading Chelsea FC of England to the Club World Cup of seven teams contest beginning from Thursday in Abu Dhabi. The Chelsea coach expressed excitement leading the English club to the UAE, anticipating to be the third English team that will win the Club World Cup previously won by Manchester United and Liverpool.
Tuchel had stated on Chelsea website: “I have to say once you are in it you are pretty excited.
“Once you are not in it, it is a competition that has not the highest focus and highest value. It seems like this in Europe, or only for me.
“But once you are in it and you start planning it and you see it coming on the horizon is it quite exciting.”
Tuchel led Chelsea to win the Champions League title last season defeating Manchester City 1-0 in the final. The Champions League winner further defeated Villarreal last August to win the UEFA Super Cup.
Chelsea first played the Club World Cup in 2012, but lost in the final to Corinthians, a Brazilian team, in Japan.
According to Tuchel: “It is a big opportunity to win an extraordinary trophy which is far from daily business and that is why we will do anything to take the chance to make it happen.”
Chelsea will take on Al Hilal of Saudi Arabia, Asian Champions League winners; local side Al Jazira or Tahiti’s AS Pirae on February 9.
The tough game with Chelsea is perceived the match with Palmeiras, Brazilian clubs participating on the Club World Cup for the ninth time. The Brazilian club had defended their Copa Libertadores title in November.
CONCACAF Champions League winners, Monterrey, participating in the competition for the fifth time, will trade tackle with African representatives, Al Ahly of Egypt, in the second round.
Al Ahly is participating in the tournament for the seventh after winning the CAF Champions League title 10 times. Most of their key players are currently with the national team of Egypt playing in the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, where Egypt defeated the host country, Cameroon on Friday, to qualify for the AFCON final.
Previous recent winners of the Club World Cup are:
2020: Bayern Munich (GER)
2019: Liverpool (ENG)
2018: Real Madrid (ESP)
2017: Real Madrid (ESP)
2016: Real Madrid (ESP)
2015: Barcelona (ESP)
2014: Real Madrid (ESP)
2013: Bayern Munich (GER)
2012: Corinthians (BRA)
2011: Barcelona (ESP)
The Club World Cup is often competed by champions of the six continental confederations, in addition to the top team in the host country.
Share this on WhatsApp