Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The primary election of the All Progressive Congress (APC), for contestants vying for the bye-election into Bassa/Jos North federal constituency has ended in stalemate.
The 7-man electoral panel announced to newsmen after the processes that two among the contestants Hon. Abbey Aku and Hon Suleiman Yahaya Kwande scored the highest votes cast.
While announcing the results, secretary of the election panel, Hon. Aminu Sabo said voting we’re cast for four aspirants,  Hon Suleiman Yahaya Kwande, Hon Abbey Aku, Hon Lumumba Dah Adeh and Dr. Aliyu Adamu
According to Sabo, “There is stalemate, two aspirants emerged with highest score, they are Hon Abbey Aku and Hon Suleiman Yahaya Kwande. Each of them score 344 votes.
“In this situation, the panel is not in the position to declare a winner or take decision. We have to revert to the national secretariat of the party, only the party has the power to take decision in such stalemate”.
The situation created tension among party members, delegates and aspirants who expected a clear cut winner in the election.
Both aspirants expressed disappointment with the outcome of the election. Hon Abbey Aku said, “I sense a foul play by election panel, I knew I won the election because, my agent was texting me the results as they count them.
“When that of Jos North was counted he text the result to me, and when that of Bassa was counted he also text it to me. I put my scores in both local government together and my votes were 367, while that of my closest opponent was 340.
“So I am shock to here that there is a stalemate, how that happened, it is left for the election panel to explain. But as far as I am concerned, this result is unacceptable to me”.
However in his reaction, Hon Kwande said, “I know I won this election fair and square. I am extremely disappointed in my party and I am not happy. I am an adult, no one can coerced me into doing what I don’t want to do”.
The state publicity secretary of APC, Hon Sylvanus Namang told newsmen that all the contestants were given level playing ground which was why the processes went on free and fair, but unfortunately we have this stalemate.
According to him: “It is only the national secretariat of the party that can resolve this stalemate, the party at the state has no say in this stalemate.
“The national secretariat is likely to order a re-run for the two aspirants with the highest votes. In this case, between Him Suleiman Kwande and Hon. Abbey Aku.
 
















Share this on WhatsApp