Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


They all have one thing in common, heading the transport body of a particular axis.. Those money being collected at garages “owo eru”. They don’t just collect them of fun. They ate usually remitted to their chiefs and heads. These heads are notorious touts. They kill at will . Their followers and fellow thugs shed blood for them. Clashes are usually common between rival members. In my opinion, they are the real owner of Lagos state. Many have gone, many still walk freely. They are respected, feared and above all, dangerous.
Here is the top 5
5. Ayinde Oyedepo AKA Koko Zaria

A topshot of NURTW and controlling much of Lagos. He sometimes ago got into a mess concerning his love life.Lavished money on nollywood acrtress Awela Adita who he eventually impregnated.
4. Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya Aka MC Oluomo
The NURTW top dog is almost as popular as the governor of lagos state and has connect with his godfather tinubu. He pepertrates so many crimes and gets away with it. Remember the fracas he had with hamburger ?
he however denied being involved but we all know the truth. He controls much of Oshodi Axis and hes the treasurer. He is said to be very generous and willing to help anyone. His daughter just got married recently after sending them abroad to study yet his loyal followers keep shedding blood back home in Nigeria.
3. Talo
A bitter rival of mc oluomo, he has led numerous assault across Lagos in the past.
After mc oluomo’s plea to him to stop telling the media that he’s after his life, they were only able to settle their rift recently. We all know its for show off and it has a brutal end.
2. Akanni Olorunwa aka Olorunwa
The ex transport chairman was respected and feared. He was only recently just released by the police after a murder accusation
He has followers who kill freely for him and many of his sidekicks have come out to confess.
1. Rasaq Bello Aka Hamburger (deceased)

Rasaq Bello, popularly called Hamburger, was shot dead in Shogunle, Oshodi when a fight erupted during the primaries of the APC. He was shot by members of a rival gang led by Samson Agbetoye, popularly called Golden.
Golden belongs to the MC Olumo faction of the NURTW in the state of Lagos.
Hamburger and his group stormed the base of Golden in Ago Owu street.
Both camps exchanged gun shots. One of the shots hit Hamburger and was ferried away from the scene of the incident by his supporters. He died in the hospital on may 29 2017. He was the Akinrogun of Shogunle and the head of the motorcyclists arm of the NURTW.
Extortion of money from motorists by his boys made him very wealthy. Before his death, he owned a mansion in oshodi and flew his wife and kids to Dublin, Ireland.


Share this on WhatsApp