Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The former Emir of Kano, His Royal Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II, on Monday cautioned presidential aspirants for the 2023 general elections to know that the problems they will facing are multiples of the problems that were faced in 2015, indicating that Nigeria has become worse in the All Progressives Congress (APC) government in about the past six years.
HRH Muhammadu Sanusi II, at a reception by Egba Muslim in Abeokuta, Ogun State, asserted that Nigeria is living on extra time, telling presidential aspirants to be prepared for the diverse challenges in the country.
According to Sanusi, former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria: “To be honest, we are living on extra time. In 2015, we were in a deep hole. In 2023, we will be in an even much deeper hole than in 2015.
“Those struggling to be president, I hope they understand that the problems that they are going to face are multiples of the problems that were faced in 2015. All of us have to be ready for difficult decisions and if they are taken, we are all going to pay for them.
“But the solution is not for all of us to jump into politics. This country needs good politicians. It needs imams, pastors, and bishops who are going to stand up and remind them of the fear of God.
“It needs technocrats who are going to critique their policies. It needs traditional rulers who are going to speak as the conscience of the people. Everyone has a role to play and we should try to play that role to the best of our ability.”
Sanusi urged Nigerians to elect leaders who are competent to deliver the dividends of democracy to the benefit of the people. He insisted that voters should choose leaders based on merits
The former Emir had declared: “I think the most important thing is that we should continue to pray for our country that whoever emerges as president, governors, senators, leadership at all levels, that we get good leaders.
“We should also remind ourselves as citizens that we owe it to ourselves because we know that this country deserves better than we have been given.”
Share this on WhatsApp