Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Ahead of the 2023 Presidential Election scheduled next year, there are top contestants jostling for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential tickets, one of them is the Former vice president of Nigeria, Atiku Aboubakar. His ambition as a presidential candidate has been attracting support both from the Northern and Southern Region of the country.
It’s of no news that Atiku Abubakar has expressed his desire to run for the presidency post under the People’s Democratic Party, just like he did in the 2019, and if the former vice president of Nigeria runs for president of the PDP, here is a list of three Southerners he can consider as running mates.
1. Nyesom Wike
Nyesom Wike, the current governor of Rivers State, could be a plausible alternative for Atiku’s vice-presidential candidate.
If Wike joins the ticket, he will bring with him a deep stream of financial resources that will be required to mount a presidential campaign.
Apart from the possibility of providing cash to Atiku’s campaign, Wike may provide a lot of political experience, having won governorship elections in Rivers State in hotly contested elections.
2. Peter Obi
The importance of Peter Obi’s contribution to Atiku Abubakar’s presidential ambitions in the 2019 election cannot be overstated. Mr. Obi was essential in increasing the number of votes cast in that election, even though Atiku did not win.
Being from Anambra State, which has one of the largest electorates in the Southeast, Peter Obi’s inclusion on Atiku’s ticket may tip the scales in his favor in the 2023 elections.
In Atiku’s presidential campaign, the former governor of Anambra State can also contribute his wide understanding of administration and political experience garnered as governor of Anambra State to help enhance his chances of being elected.
3. Seyi Makinde
To improve his prospects of winning the upcoming elections, Atiku Abubakar may chose Seyi Makinde, the current governor of Oyo State, as one of his running partners.
One of the advantages that Seyi Makinde will bring to the Atiku campaign is that, as a result of his style of government and the infrastructure developments he has implemented in Oyo State, he currently enjoys enormous goodwill among Nigerians.
Because Seyi Makinde is from the South-West, his candidacy for vice-president may entice voters in that geopolitical zone to throw their support behind an Atiku presidency.


Share this on WhatsApp