Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Nigerians have reacted differently to the return of Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, the National Leader of the APC party to Nigeria. After 10 days of travelling to the United Kingdom, where he reportedly went to do consultation ahead of his presidential ambition, the return of the reverence leader of the APC party, has generated reactions on social media.
In the pictures that have since gone viral on social media, Tinubu is undoubtedly, looking younger and very much full of life, despite being 68 years old. According to Punch, Tinubu arrived at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, on Sunday, January 6, looking stylish in his English outfit. The former Lagos State, Governor was welcomed into the country, by his campaign team, those who have endorsed him to become the next President of the country.
You will recall that there were several mixed reactions over the UK trip of Bola Tinubu, especially, due to the fact that the APC party, is currently preparing for the National Convention, ahead of the 2023 general election. The spokesperson of Bola Tinubu had debunked the several rumors making rounds about the trip the APC leader. According to Tunde Rahman, Bola Tinubu travelled to hold some meetings and further consultations in line with his 2023 presidential ambition.
In my opinion, there could be three reasons why Bola Tinubu is looking younger in the pictures that emerged online, after his arrival to the country. The first reason, is due to his outfit, Nigerians are so used to seeing our leaders on traditional attire, when they get to dress in English attire, they always look younger. This happens to everyone, the way a person looks when he dresses in a native attire is quite different from the way such person will look on English attire, I believe it is one of the reason, some Nigerians expressed surprise that Tinubu is looking Younger.

The second reason, I have to state, is the weather conditions of the United Kingdom, the weather over there is quite different from the weather in Nigeria. The last time, Bola Tinubu was in the United Kingdom, it was over health issues, I believe he didn’t have the opportunity to enjoy the UK weather as much as he would have wanted, but this he was opportune to do so. There is no how a person would spend some time in the UK and there wouldn’t be a notable change.
Lastly, as Politicians they go through lots of stress, their Calendar is usually filled with lots of activities and events. For instance, before Tinubu travelled out of the country, he travelled to different parts of the country, making consultation with notable leaders about his presidential ambition. These series of activities, without quality rest, I believe makes our leaders to look older than their ages, some times. A bit of rest can make the difference for them to look younger. Before his UK trip, Tinubu travelled to Niger State, Oyo State, and Zamfara State, and even told the President of his Presidency ambition.


Share this on WhatsApp