Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) maintaining peace in Plateau and environs, has organised a cultural dance competition to promote peaceful co-existence among the various ethnic groups in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau.

Maj. Ishaku Takwa, the Media Officer of the task force, announced this in statement on Sunday in Jos, adding that the maiden event held on Saturday in Barkin Ladi.

Speaking at the event, Maj.-Gen. Ibrahim Ali, the Commander of the Operation, said that the competition is part of its non-kinetic approach toward achieving peace in communities.

Represented by his Chief of Staff, Brig.-Gen. Amos Egbejule, Ali said that the military would continue to adopt various strategies toward ensuring that peace and harmony returns to all parts of Plateau.

“Let me use this opportunity to charge Plateau people to utilise their rich cultural heritage to promote unity and peaceful co-existence among the diverse ethnic groups in the state.

“The cultural diversity of the people is a great source of strength to  this state and the nation at large and so, it should be harnessed for peace and progress.

 “There is no alternative to peace and the beauty of peace is when people come together to celebrate their beautiful cultural diversity as one united entity,” he said.

Ali urged the people to cooperate and support the security agencies toward achieving sustainable peace and security in the communities.

He further advised residents of Plateau to shun all forms of violence and learn to live in peace with their neighbours.

In their separate remarks, the Chairman of Barkin Ladi council, Mr Jok Alamba, Dr Simon Mwadkwon, Member Representing Barikin Ladi/Riyom Federal constituency,  the Gwom Rwei Barikin Ladi, Da Edward Bot, promised to work together to sustain the peace and security in the area.

They charged the people to fight the enemies of peace and support the security agencies that are working tirelessly to ensure peace continue to reign on the  Plateau.

The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event featured dancing and eating competitions between twelve different cultural groups and tug of war among the groups.
Share this on WhatsApp