Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Monday assented t0 three bills relating to regulation of real estate transactions in the State; law to provide for the registration of Cooperative Societies in Lagos State; and law to regulate ownership, licensing, and sales of pets and to prohibit and restrict people from having in custody dangerous animals in public places.
Governor Sanwo-Olu signing the bills into law at the weekly State Executive Council meeting, swore in two advisers, saying that the new bills will strengthen government and citizens’ engagement and relationships. “With the new laws, residents of the state will continue to live in an atmosphere where the rule of law is enshrined for people and to know what is expected of them,” he said.
Governor Sanwo-Olu commended the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, and the legislators for passing the bills into laws. He assured:  the government will “continue to ensure that our citizens are happy with us and trust is further deepened in government.”
The governor noted that the law for regulation the real estate transactions in Lagos State will help to protect the citizens; the unsuspecting Lagosians who fall prey to many real estate professionals. He stated that the law will help players in the real estate sector to know what is expected of them and for government to be able to track who is doing what in the sector.
According to Sanwo-Olu, “It is really about ease of doing business and ensuring that we can continue to attract private sector investments into the real estate space. We believe this law would be the very first in the country that has taken a deep dive into what is happening in that space and it further strengthens our intervention in housing through the Ministry of Housing.”
The governor emphasized that the law to provide for the registration of cooperative societies in Lagos State will make it easy to regulate the operations of thousands of cooperative societies in the state for harmonious cooperation.
He further emphasized that the law regulating the ownership, licensing and sales of pets, prohibiting and restricting people from having in custody dangerous animals in public places, will further strengthen all the deliverables in the Ministry of Agriculture, especially, issues that have to do with pets and animals.
The new special advisers are Ope George, Special Adviser on Public-Private Partnerships; and Dr. Oluwarotimi Fashola, Special Adviser on Agriculture (Rice Mill Initiative) respectively.
Governor Sanwo-Olu noted that the two special advisers are coming into the State Executive Council with a lot of experience in public and private partnership and agriculture to add value to the system, wishing them the very best in their new assignments.
Sanwo-Olu stated: “We believe this addition to our cabinet will further strengthen our ability to deliver all that we promised our citizens because we need people in strategic positions. We need people that have sufficient authority to be able to dispense their responsibilities.”
Share this on WhatsApp