Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFintiri, Jime inaugurate committee to develop transport infrastructure projects.
Gov. Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa and the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Mr Emmanuel Jime, have inaugurated a committee for the development of transport infrastructure projects.
The transport infrastructure projects are the Vehicle Transit Areas ((VTAs) at Ngurore near Yola and Border Information Centre (BIC) at Sahuda, near border area in Mubi, Adamawa.
This is contained in a statement signed by Mrs Rakiya Dhikru-Yagboyaju, Head, Public Relations of NSC, on Friday in Lagos.
“NSC and the Adamawa State Government representatives, had met in Abuja, where it was resolved that a 10-member joint committee be inaugurated to fast-track the development of the transport infrastructure projects,” she said.
Jime said at the inauguration of the technical committee that the agency had the mandate to facilitate development of transport infrastructure in the country.
He also noted that the NSC was working to actualise modern VTAs in Nigeria.
“I am optimistic that the joint technical committee will make concerted efforts to see to the realisation of the projects in the state.
“Adamawa is strategically positioned for the establishment of Vehicle Transit Areas and Border Information Centre,” he said.
Fintiri lauded Jime for commitment toward the development of VTAs and BIC in Adamawa.
According to him, the VTAs and BIC will not serve Adamawa alone, but also neighbouring countries such as Cameroon, Chad and Central African Republic.
He expressed optimism that the development of VTAs would address indiscriminate parking of trucks on roads in the state.
Responding to concerns about insecurity, the governor said that the state government had put in place measures which resulted in reduction of crimes.
The Co-chairperson representing Adamawa State Government on the joint committee, Hajia Rabi Ahmad, said that the state government would ensure actualisation of the VTAs and BIC in the state.
The Co-chairman representing NSC, Mr Phillip Eduwa, hailed Adamawa Government for pivotal role it played toward the development of the VTAs and BIC in the state.
Eduwa said that the NSC, as the facilitator of the projects, would also play role toward the realisation of the VTAs and BIC in Adamawa.
He called on the committee to enlighten stakeholders to get their buy-in for the projects.
The terms of reference of the committee include collaboration with relevant agencies such as Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission to obtain necessary guidelines for the development of the VTAs.
This will be in line with the standard specifications and in compliance with international best practices.
The terms of reference also include identification of all the essential requirements for execution of VTAs from inception to operational level.
It equally include collaboration with land owners/host communities to create adequate sensitisation.
Share this on WhatsApp