Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


One would have expected that by now the Peoples Democratic Party, like its counterpart, the All Progressive Congress, will come out open as to which geopolitical zone it will zone it presidential ticket to. The All Progressive Congress has ceded the party’s presidential ticket to the South and North was given the chairmanship ticket. The party’s National Convention is slated to hold March 26 after the February 26 date was postponed.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national chairman is from the North, that is Benue State, this could give a clue to which geopolitical zone the party will cede presidential ticket to, but, it seems the party is still monitoring the situation of things before it makes it final decision.
The major contenders for the party’s presidential ticket are the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and the former President of the Senate, and former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim who is said to be the favorite.
ALSO READ: 2023: 1 Southern PDP leader who may not support the zoning of presidency
Whatever may be responsible for the delay, the party should bring out a credible individual. The governors of the party from the South met few weeks ago and decided that the presidential ticket should go to the South. But, whether the party will take the advice is totally left to them.
The Peoples Democratic Party should borrow a leaf from the All Progressive Congress which has already decided which path to follow. This will give the party enough time to plan and know how to strategize. As the Independent National Electoral Commission announced the dates for next year’s elections, all candidates and political parties should play according to the rules.
The right to determine who becomes the next president lies in the hands of the electorate. Every citizen should embrace peace and avoid buying or selling votes. Beyond the geopolitical zones, political parties, ethnic groups, the next president must be a person of credibility, integrity and sincerity. Someone who understands the peculiar challenges of the country.


Share this on WhatsApp