Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveNGO, NDLEA advise students against drug abuse.
An NGO, Centre for Ethical Rebirth Among Nigerian Youths (CERANY) and National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have advised students not to allow anything such as illicit drugs to derail them from their ambition and good dreams.
The NGO gave the advice to students of Government Secondary School (GSS) Karu, Abuja on Thursday as part of the ongoing nationwide campaign against drug abuse and insecurity.
Mr Chuks Akamadu, the President of CERANY said that having shared their beautiful dreams of becoming lawyers, architects, civil engineers, bankers and accountants, “it is in their own interest to stay away from drug abuse”.
“It is in the interest of the students to safeguard their future because experimenting with drugs, they may eventually get hooked with it and will abort their dreams.
“So it is in the interest of their beautiful dreams and careers that they hope to pursue not to have anything at all to do with drugs and for obvious reasons.
“One of the basic consequences of drug abuse is that it destroys the central nervous system and distract the ability of retention of what they have read, and what they have been taught or what they have learnt.
“So there is no way career and drug will meet, both are two different parallel lines, they are divergent, it distorts the diligent pursuit of ones career,” he said.
Mrs Angela Nweke, an Assistant Commander of Narcotics, NDLEA took the students through what drug abuse was all about, and urged the them not to indulge in such practice.
Nweke also advised the students to beware of various influences and on why people abuse drugs such as peer pressure, availability of drugs, accessibility of drugs and desire to achieved success.
“Others are materialistic, parents culture, experimentation, broken homes and social pathology, unemployment, students must be caution about all these influences.”
She said that the consequences of drug taking were to some extent not amendable, adding that the students
must strive hard to become a recognisable members of the society.

She told the students to always engage in activities that would make them not to think of negative things, and also create time for things that create public awareness such as television and radio.

Nweke tasked the students to help with the campaign to other of their peer groups to desist from drug taking and abuse habit.

The two organisations were also at the Government Secondary School, Nyanya where they gave similar of drug abuse lectures and how to prevent the habit.

The organisations advised the students to listen to their teachers and focus more on their studies, adding that their ambitions and dreams were achievable if they stayed away from illicit drugs.


Students of GSS, Nyanya paying attention to lecture on drug abuse

Share this on WhatsApp