Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


 
It was almost two months ago precisely on the 23rd of December 2021 that Nigerians woke up to the shocking news of the crashing of the Royal marriage between the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II, and his estranged wife, Prophetess Naomi Silekunola. What made the news more startling was the fact that it was the Ex-Queen that announced the divorce on her Facebook page. A move that many described as an aberration to the integrity of tradition and Royal etiquette.
Again, in what appears like another deviation from the conventional ways of behaviour expected of a queen, the evangelist has once again taken to her social media to give the public something to talk about. As reported by The Punch, she simultaneously put a short video of herself after a makeover session on both her Instagram and Facebook pages. And it was the background song that added more to that cynical gesture.
The song in the background of her video has some lyrics that convey that she is nobody’s ex. But whether this is a confirmation of her being divorced or of her about to return to the palace is yet to be ascertained, but what is certain is that she has yet to pull down the post where she announced her divorce and that she is no longer a queen.
Away from that, it would be recalled that there were some rumours that the elders of Ife and Akure have tried to reunite the prophetess with the monarch, but it seems no dent has been made in their efforts at reconciling them both.
More so, rumour also has it that the Monarch himself was as surprised as everyone to learn about the divorce on social media while he was away at a 3-day function in Lagos and had ordered that a new car be arranged for the Queen as a Christmas gift. That alone is enough to bruise the ego of any man let alone that of the foremost King of an entire race.
Meanwhile, the queen appears to have been loving the life outside the palace, and that is why she has probably refused to pull down the post about her divorce from her Facebook page.


Share this on WhatsApp