Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Russia in the storm of border tension, has continue to deepen incursion into Ukraine tertiary.  Russian Navy on Saturday encroached the border of Ukraine, while conducting large-scale naval drills in the Black Sea to protect the aquatic territory against external aggression.
The Defence Ministry in Russia highlighted on Saturday: “Over 30 vessels from the Black Sea fleet took to the sea from Sebastopol and Novorossiysk in accordance with the exercise plan.
“The aim of the exercise is to defend the coast of the Crimea peninsula, the bases of the forces of the Black Sea fleet as well as the country’s economic sector … from possible military threats.”
Russia had refuted U.S. exit warning to American citizens to depart Ukraine, disclosing that Russia would invade Ukraine any time soon. Russia considered the exit warning as “hysteria”.
The US had on Friday issued directives to its citizens to leave Ukraine, saying that Russian possible invasion of Ukraine, could take place “any day now.”
White House National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, was of the view that such an attack would likely begin with airstrikes and missile attacks, warning Americans in Ukraine to leave the country “as soon as possible.”
Several countries of the European Union on Saturday joined the U.S. in ordering their citizens to leave Ukraine immediately.
Russia, however, scolded the U.S. for raising such alarm, saying that the West need war at all costs, instigating provocation.
The spokesperson of the foreign ministry, Maria Zakharova, on Telegram wrote, “The White House’s hysteria is more revealing than ever. The Anglo-Saxons need a war at all costs. The provocations, disinformation and the threats are their favourite method for resolving their own problems.”
The Ambassador of Russia to the US, Anatoly Antonov, in a media interaction,  stated that the US warnings were “alarmist”, reiterating  that Russia  is “not going to attack anyone.”
It has been alleged that Russia assembled tens of thousands of troops along Ukraine’s borders, generating fears that Russia intends to invade its former Soviet neighbour, eight years after it seized the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine.
Russia, however, denied any intention to invade Ukraine, refuted that any such intention. Russia demanded that the West should not admit Ukraine joining the defence alliance of the West, NATO. The EU and U.S. had turned down Russia’s request.
Russia had in January disclosed carrying out a series of naval drills in the Atlantic Ocean, the Arctic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the Mediterranean Sea, also in “waters and seas adjacent to Russian territory.” The defence ministry highlighted on Saturday that over 140 warships and support vessels, over 60 aircraft, 1,000 pieces of military hardware and over 10,000 troops were deployed for the operations.
Russia accused Ukraine’s pro-Western government and Western powers of threatening its security in waters off Crimea. Russian forces, therefore, fired warning shots at a British destroyer that it accused of entering its waters; Britain however, debunked the attack.
Russian is enjoying the cooperation of Belarus, located in the north of Ukraine; and has easy access to Europe.
Share this on WhatsApp