Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFRSC warns motorists against driving without fire extinguishers.
The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has warned motorists in Kogi against driving without fire extinguisher.
The Kogi FRSC Sector Commander, Mr Solomon Agure, gave the warning in a statement signed by the command’s Public Education Officer, Mr Ayodeji Oluwadunsin
Agure said that it had come to the notice of the corps that most of the motorists in the state would not bother to carry fire extinguisher, a situation which had resulted in unnecessary and preventable fire outbreaks.
“The FRSC Kogi Sector Command has observed with much concern the rate of automobile vehicles involved in fire outbreaks in recent time.
“This is due to the current weather condition (harmattan) coupled with the lackadaisical attitude of vehicle owners in the state to the getting active fire extinguishers.
“We shall no longer tolerate any motorist violating traffic rules and regulations.
“The mandatory possession of an extinguisher was in tandem with the Corps 2022 Corporate Strategic Goals to achieve the 15 per cent reduction both in fatality and road accidents through public education, advocacy and heightened enforcement.
“This is solely because fire extinguisher is an active fire protection device used to extinguish small fire often in emergency situations,” he explained.
The FRSC boss wondered why some motorists found it so difficult to equip their vehicles with such safety equipment.
“Most of the automobile fire outbreak on our roads are preventable through proper and regular vehicle maintenance.
“Fire outbreaks are avoidable if this important facility is actually available to fight the fire directly from source,” he said.
Agure said that the command had to step up enforcement on essential safety tool in vehicles through the corps periodic Vehicle Free Safety Check patrol.
He, however, urged the public to use 122 toll free line to report to the corps any emergency situation or any act that was suspected to be dangerous to commuters.
Share this on WhatsApp