Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFCTA to strengthen health facilities in area councils.
 
The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), has restated its commitment towards strengthening the existing health facilities across the six area councils of the territory.
Mr Austine Elemue, Special Assistant on Media to the FCT Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, in a statement on Friday, said the minister made the pledge at the inauguration of a state of the art laboratory centre in Abuja.
The centre was established by the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre.
Aliyu assured residents that the FCTA was ready to partner with result-oriented organisations that were willing to provide for them quality healthcare services, in order to meet the increasing healthcare demands.
The minister noted that the duty of providing quality healthcare services was a daunting task that must be achieved.
She, however, said that the administration could not accomplish that alone, noting that; “purposeful partnership remained an option the administration must be willing to look into.”
The minister said facilities such as the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre, would not only meet the healthcare needs of its host community, but also boost healthcare delivery systems in the territory.
“I am aware that, the need for this project arose from a practical encounter of members with inadequate centres for testing in our health facilities.
“Therefore, true to the spirit of improving healthcare delivery systems, the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre decided to establish this befitting centre.
“I wish to use this opportunity to remind us of the popular established public health truth that prevention, early detection and treatment of any disease, are useful and effective control measures.
“I therefore, urge everyone present here and those who are not here, but have this message. to ensure wide publicity,” she stated.
The minister who served as the chief host at the opening ceremony, urged personnel in the facility to observe Standard Operating Procedures in taking care of clients.
She expressed optimism that the centre would improve health outcomes for residents in the catchment of the facility.
“On our part and in partnership with health stakeholders, we will continue to strengthen the existing healthcare facilities across the six Area Councils to meet the high demand of our people.
“I want to commend our partner, the Arab International Laboratory and Diagnostics Centre, for this centre, which I believe will improve health outcomes for residents in the catchment of this facility,” she affirmed.
Earlier, the Registrar and Chief Executive Officer, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Dr Tosan Erabor, said the council would continue to drive the culture of quality and efficient health laboratory care to the public.
Erabor urged the centre to provide fast, reliable and high quality medical laboratory investigations in Nigeria.
He expressed optimism that the centre would provide services based on ” ISO -15189”, the standard code for global medical laboratories’ operations.
Erabor, also enjoined the management of the centre to engage the services of experienced, qualified and licensed medical laboratory scientists, with deliberate investment in continuous professional development and services.
Share this on WhatsApp