Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Skin and seeds are important components that makes up a fruit. Some fruits have skin that could be eaten while others are made up of harmful skin that should never be eaten. Peach, watermelon and apple should not be peeled, this is because they are packed with nutritious skin. See the fruits that shouldn’t be peeled before eating.
1. PeachSome people peel off the skin of peach, this is not right because they are very nutritious. They are packed with vitamins, antioxidants, and dietary fiber. They contain vitamin A and carotenoids which helps to keep your eyes healthy and reduce your risk of having cataracts. The fiber present in peach skin helps to aid proper digestion.
2. Watermelon
Don’t just enjoy the succulent part of watermelon, also go for their skin. Watermelon skin contains an amino acid known as citrulline. This amino acid present in watermelon helps to get rid of nitrogen from your blood. When the amount of nitrogen in your blood is reduced, sore muscles pain will also reduce.
3. Apple
Some people usually peel off the skin of their apple before eating. The skin of apple contains more vitamins and fiber than the inside. Quercetin, an antioxidant present in apple helps make your brain and lungs work better.
4. CucumberThe green skin of cucumber contains a lot of antioxidants, fiber as well as potassium. The vitamin K present helps to keep your bone health and enhances blood clotting. When eating your cucumber, eat it along with the peel. You can peel the skin off if it has a bitter taste.
5. MangoMango skin is packed with antioxidants, polyphenols, carotenoids and other vitamins. The polyunsaturated fatty acid and omega 3 fatty acid present helps in keeping your heart healthy and providing energy.
6. BananaBanana skin is very nutritious but they taste a little bit bitter. They are packed with potassium and other essential antioxidants. Lutein present in banana peels helps to keep your eyes healthy. Tryptophan and amino acid are also present in banana peels.


Share this on WhatsApp