Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
A coalition of supporters’ groups for Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro of Delta State has cautioned governorship aspirants in the state to refrain from blackmail and unnecessary propaganda against the deputy governor in the 2023 race for Dennis Osadebe House, Asaba. The coalition enjoined the various governorship aspirants to devote their energy in proving their leadership quality and convincing the people of Delta State why they are better than one another than hiding their incompetence under the guise of falsehood, propaganda and blackmail.
The Greater Delta Project (GDP), and all the Kingsley Burutu Otuaro (KBO) supporters’ groups across Delta State detested the deluge of propaganda, occupying the political airwaves in the state.  According to the GDP: “The mother of all such cheap propaganda being peddled by some integrity-defeated governorship aspirants in the State and their floating supporters is the unverified news of certain PDP governorship aspirants stepping down from the race.”
The Greater Delta Project (GDP) declared that they are “disappointed that some of the PDP governorship aspirants who are sure suffering from integrity crisis and thus, cannot face popularity test have resorted to cheap blackmail of their fellow contestants in order to score cheap political points.
“Our Principal, Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, have become a victim of these cheap political blackmails that he has step down for certain aspirants.

“We make bold to tell Deltans and indeed, Deacon Kingsley Burutu Otuaro’s teaming supporters across the State, in particular, and the Nigerian federation at large, that KBO is unrelentingly in the governorship race and has no reason whatsoever to step down for anybody when his prospect of winning the PDP gubernatorial primary and by extension, the 2023 governorship election is very bright by God’s grace.”

The group further declared: “With KBO’s towering image in every human endeavor as well as his political clout which is above board, we are sure Deltans will willingly give him their mandates.
“Otuaro as a certified academic pundit with an undeniably proven technocrat, a philanthropist and a servant leader down to the earth; a detribalised Deltan and a peace and conflict resolution expert is the best choice of Deltans for the plum job.
“We, therefore, call on these disgruntled gubernatorial aspirants to strictly campaign for their ambition and leave Otuaro out of their misfortune propaganda. Our principal with his team of supporters have been busy consulting the stakeholders in the State as well as the PDP delegates. We expect those aspirants manufacturing lies just to launder their bartered images to embark on such all-embracing politicking.
“We advise these political hustlers to desist from the barrage of lies they floated in order to earn cheap political popularity. Election cannot be won by propaganda or emotional blackmails.”



Share this on WhatsApp