Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe United Nations (UN) and Western powers on Monday opposed President Vladimir Putin of Russia on his recognition of the independence of two self-proclaimed republics in eastern Ukraine, threatening sanctions.
The United States President, in collaboration with the presidents of France, Germany and others protested that President Putin’s decision was a “clear breach” of the Minsk peace agreements.
The German chancellery in a statement after their consultations, indicated that President Emmanuel Macron of France, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and US President Joe Biden vowed that “this step will not go unanswered.”
Furthermore, the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, tweeted: Putin’s decision required “a swift and firm response, and we will take appropriate steps in coordination with partners”.
The United States urgently declared financial sanctions against the separatist territories recognized on Monday by Russia in eastern Ukraine, threatening that more were ready if necessary.
UN chief Antonio Guterres protested that Russia’s decision amounted to “a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and inconsistent with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations”.
President Emmanuel Macron of France demanded targeted European Union sanctions against Russia, including UN emergency meeting.
According to a statement from his office, “He is demanding an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council as well as the adoption of targeted European sanctions.”
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson declared Putin’s decision “a flagrant violation of the sovereignty and integrity of the Ukraine”.
Johnson threatened that a “very robust package of sanctions” would be triggered “with the first toecap of a Russian incursion or Russian invasion.”
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock insisted that Russia was breaking the Minsk peace agreements that it signed in 2014.
Baerbock declared, “With its decision, Russia is breaking all its promises to the world community.”
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg protested that the action of Russia “further undermines Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, erodes efforts towards a resolution of the conflict, and violates the Minsk Agreements, to which Russia is a party.”
Jens Stoltenberg further raised alarm that “Moscow continues to fuel the conflict in eastern Ukraine by providing financial and military support to the separatists. It is also trying to stage a pretext to invade Ukraine once again.”
Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel of the European Union, in identical statements on Twitter, argued that the action of Russia is “a blatant violation of international law.”
They insisted that “The EU and its partners will react with unity, firmness and with determination in solidarity with Ukraine.”
President Aleksandar Vucic of Serbia expressed concerns that there are fears that the Ukraine crisis “could spread in other parts of Europe and the world, especially on the Western Balkans.”
The tension continued all through Monday as Putin ordered troops into eastern Ukraine on peace mission.
Russia may be looking unto its ally, China, to cushion the hard effects of the sanction from the West.
Share this on WhatsApp