Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
 
New facts have emerged on the ongoing travails of the suspended head of the IRT, DCP Abba Kyari over a controversial drug deal as fresh video footage has contradicted claims of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) concerning the alleged involvement of suspended Kyari.
It would be recalled that the NDLEA had linked Kyari alongside four others in connection with the cocaine said to have arrived at the Enugu International Airport, fingering them as members of a drug syndicate.
According to a report by Daily Trust, the police after investigation were able to identify two international drug couriers identified as Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus, who were arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu on January 19, 2022 upon their arrival from Addis Ababa aboard Ethiopian Airlines flight ET917 were subsequently transferred to the NDLEA on January 25.
READ ALSO: Cocaine deal: Kyari, 4 others know fate Monday
However, investigations have shown that only four police officers from IRT were involved in the arrest of the suspects and the drugs.
It was reliably gathered that the four police officers ran into trouble for being unable to get compensation from NDLEA for the whistleblower, as is always the case, having promised him he would receive full compensation, an agreement the whistleblower undertook to reveal the arrival of the drugs into the country.
The head of the four police officers who went to Enugu for the operation subsequently contacted Abba Kyari if he knew any senior officer in the NDLEA so he could help get the whistleblower his compensation.
According to a highly placed police source, Kyari, acting on the fact that the four officers were under his control and moving to assist, accepted and called one of them, who was seen in the car with him.
They met two times according to the reliable source, with the second meeting showing a photograph of Kyari standing near the NDLEA officer’s SUV.
READ ALSO: How Abba Kyari’s accomplice, John Umoru starved 7 persons to death at Awkuzu SARS
The source disclosed further that the NDLEA had in their custody the two suspects and the drugs since January 22 but never proceeded with the case and only came out with the news declaring Kyari wanted in their bid to absolve the agency’s men who are complicit in the deal.
The source at the police headquarters revealed that Kyari alongside three other agents of the IRT were called into the headquarters on Saturday to enable the police to carry out its investigation.
According to a reliable source, Kyari and the three others were actually with the police at the force headquarters when the NDLEA declared them wanted, raising concern about the motive of declaring people ostensibly under custody wanted.
While the NDLEA acted what the source described as a script, they were unaware of the videos of interrogation that had been kept secret by the IRT officers who after arresting the two drug peddlers made a video of the proceeding.
“As if the policemen knew, the videos of their interrogation with the two drug suspects were not released to the NDLEA but kept secret because the suspect had indicted officers of the NDLEA, the source who released the video explained.
“Kyari did not know anything about the drugs. He did not take part in their arrest. He didn’t even hear it. He was only called by the head of the team to help use his good offices to talk to the NDLEA senior officer so that the whistleblower can be paid.
“The NDLEA officers in Enugu Airport got angry and contacted their colleagues in Abuja. They became uncomfortable with the demand to be compensated and decided to act funny.
“Do you know the video showing Kyari and the NDLEA officer in the car is not complete? They tempered with the video. Let them show a complete video and what they discussed,” he added.

Share this on WhatsApp