Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveScholarship: 69 UNN indigent students get N3.5m.
 
A philanthropist, Chief Jude Ozah, the Isagba of Ogbashi-Uku kingdom in Delta, has gifted some N3.5 million to 69 indigent Delta students in University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN).
The donor christened the gift scholarship of N50,000 to each of the students to assist them in their academic pursuits from a N10 million endowment he instituted in 2021.
Prof. Charles Igwe, the Vice-chancellor of UNN, in a remark in Nsukka while presenting the scholarship certificate and cash to the beneficiaries thanked the donor for investing in education.
Igwe, represented by Prof. Uju Muo, the Director of Academic Planning in UNN, urged the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the money in order to encourage the donor to invest more in education and humanity.
“I commend the donor for assisting these indigent under-graduates from his state to enable them to graduate on their course of study.
“The beneficiaries should use the money for the purpose it is meant for as well as strive to make first-class on graduation to encourage the philanthropist to invest more in education,” he said.
The VC commended Prof. Aloysius Okolie, the Dean, Faculty of Social Science, who attracted the scholarship award last year when the donor came to the university.
Speaking, Okolie explained that the donor had in April 2021 while chairing a public lecture of the Faculty of Social Science instituted a N10m scholarship award for indigent Delta State students.
“This N10m revolving scholarship scheme to be known as Chief Dr Jude & Yolanda Ndudi Ozah Scholarship Scheme is to assist indigent students in UNN from Delta State.
“The faculty is grateful to the donor for his generosity, philanthropy, and favorable disposition toward UNN and Delta students in particular.
“We thank him for this rare sacrifice and huge investment on the poor.
“Today, 69 students shortlisted by the Scholarship Faculty Committee and approved by the donor will receive N50,000 cash to assist them in their education,” he said.
According to Okolie, more students from Delta will benefit from the scholarship fund adding that by April the committee will select new beneficiaries who will receive money for scholarships, school sundry fees, and their upkeep.
Share this on WhatsApp