Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has described the outcome of Saturday’s council polls in Abuja as a signal that many Nigerians are tired of the ruling All Progressives Congress
He said the election in the Federal Capital Territory is a barometer of the mood of the nation and a precursor to the 2023 election.
He further stated that a stronger and united People’s Democratic Party is on the rise and that Nigerians are tired of the All Progressive Congress due to its governance.
The opposition Peoples Democratic Party emerged victorious in most of the post contested for. Election was conducted in over 60 wards spread across Bwari, Abaji, Gwagwalada, Kuje, Kwali and Abuja Municipal Council (AMAC) area councils of the FCT.
READ ALSO: Parties, voters buy, sell votes during FCT council poll
Shekwogaza Gabaya, candidate of the PDP, defeated Audi Shekwolo of the APC in Bwari chairmanship election.
Gabaya, who has been re-elected for a second term, polled 13,045 votes to defeat his closest challenger, Shekwolo who garnered 7,697 votes.
Amuche Madu, INEC returning/collation officer for Bwari area council, announced the results on Sunday morning.
“Shekwogaza Gabaya of PDP, having certified the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared the winner and is returned elected,” Madu said.
The electoral umpire also declared Suleman Sabo of the PDP winner of Kuje area council chairmanship election in the FCT.
READ ALSO:APC berates Wike for making 2022 worsening condition of governance in Rivers
Sabo, an incumbent chairman, floored his closest rival, Sarki Hamidu of the APC in all the 10 wards of the area council. Sabo got 13,301 votes to defeat Hamidu of the APC who polled 7,694 votes.
Sule Magaji, INEC returning officer for Kuje area council, announced the final results on Sunday morning.
Jubrin Abubakar, candidate of the APC, has been declared the winner of the chairmanship poll in Gwagwalada area council. Abubakar defeated his rival, Mohammed Kassim of the PDP.
He was declared winner of the exercise by ID Umar, INEC returning officer for Gwagwalada area council. He secured 11,125 votes while Kassim polled 9,597 votes.
Christopher Zakka, candidate of the PDP, has been declared winner of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) chairmanship election. Zakka garnered 19,302 votes to defeat his closest opponent Murtala Karshi of the APC who got 13,249 votes.
READ ALSO: Opposition accuses Wike of sponsoring suits to disorganize APC  
A total of 14 candidates competed in the AMAC chairmanship poll. Out of 14 wards, the PDP emerged victorious in 10, while the APC won only in two.
Danladi Chiya, candidate of the APC was declared winner of the FCT chairmanship election in Kwali. Chiya defeated Haruna Pai of the PDP.
Wesley Daniel, the returning officer in Kwali, declared Chiya winner of the poll on Sunday after the collation of results was completed.
Chiya, who is the incumbent council chairman, got 7,646 votes to defeat Pai who polled 7,345 votes.
Share this on WhatsApp