Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari, Femi Adesina, President Muhammadu Buhari’s has ridiculed governors of certain states who he said are using President Buhari as an excuse for their ineptitude and failures in their respective states.
Adesina, in an article captioned:  ‘Zulum Zooms In’ posted on his Facebook page on Thursday, claimed that the governors criticizing his principal are seeking hero status by antagonising the President.
According to Adesina: “If they owe salaries and pensions, once the month is ending, they begin to abuse the President, thinking their people would forget the outstanding salaries and pensions.
“When they have not built a single kilometre of road, it is Buhari. When infrastructure has decayed under them, it is Buhari. When they can’t secure the lives and property of the people they govern, it is Buhari.”
The presidential media adviser emphasized that despite the opposition from these governors, some still come in the “cover of darkness” and are still granted access by the President.
Adesina argued that Nigerians are not ignorant of the root cause of their issues and will not be distracted by the antics of such governors.
He said: “They play to the gallery, thinking they will receive applause from their people.
“No, the only sound the people hear is the rumbling from their bellies, due to hunger. And they know where their problems come from.”
Adesina further berated those saying that Boko Haram terrorists occupy two local governments; according to him, the military are in control of the local governments.
Adesina stated: “A couple of weeks earlier, the media had been awash with stories of two local governments being under Boko Haram occupation, credited to the governor, making it seem contrary to the position of the President that no Nigerian territory is now in the hands of terrorists.
“The two local governments are not under Boko Haram occupation. It is just that the people don’t feel safe enough to return home. Boko Haram is not in charge of the places.
“The military actually occupies the local governments, not insurgents. Just that the people don’t feel confident enough to return yet.”
Share this on WhatsApp