Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A former member of the House of Representatives, Abdulmumin Jibrin, has revealed that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Ahmed Tinubu, possesses multiple sources of income.
Jibrin, who is the Director-General of Tinubu’s campaign organisation for the 2023 presidential election, said Tinubu has investment in Apple, Manchester United and other companies.
The APC chieftain also clarified issues relating to the former Lagos State governor’s age, revealing that his principal is 69 years old and approaching 70.
According to him, Tinubu has been financially supporting pro-democracy groups in the 90s and his source of wealth was not questioned back then.
READ ALSO: 2023: With Tinubu Nigerian masses will smile – Volunteer groups
He described as embarrassing questions on Tinubu’s wealth, when the former governor had previously worked for multinational companies.
Jibrin said, “It has never been a source of controversy. We talk about the aid, source of wealth, Asiwaju’s spending. It has always been in the public space.
“I find it very embarrassing that we ask about his age when it is public knowledge. It is there every year, he is 69 years old and getting to 70.
“For somebody who has been (head) hunted, right from his schooling days; by multi-national organisations, worked in Arthur Andersen, worked for Mobil and got into politics. This man didn’t go into politics as a poor man.
“I can assure you that no Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is a poor man. He went into politics as a senator of the federal republic. It is in public glare that this man has business in his DNA, both in exporting and the rest. All the people are fully aware that he was sponsoring pro-democracy singlehandedly.
“Nobody has come out with a contrary opinion to that pro-democracy activism in the mid-nineties all through.
“So, why are they asking from where he was getting all that money? And, over the years, here is a man who has had investment all over the world, massive share (holding) in Apple.
“I was surprised lately, while watching a football match with him, to get to know that he is a shareholder in Manchester United (Football Club). So, he has been in business.
“So, you can categorise his business, working life and we can categorise his massive goodwill from well-wishers that should not come to us as a surprise.”
Share this on WhatsApp