Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveTCN takes delivery of 15 new power transformers for increased supply — official.
 
The Transmission Company of Nigeria(TCN) says it had taken delivery of 15 new power transformers that would increase power supply in the country.
Mrs Ndidi Mbah, TCN’s General Manager, Pubic Affairs, announced this in a statement in Abuja, on Sunday.
Mbah said the transformers comprised ten 60 MegaVolt Ampree(MVA) 132/33kV and five150MVA 330/132kV capacity transformers.
The transformers, retrieved from the Apapa ports, were delivered to TCN Central Store in Ojo, Lagos State, for onward delivery to various TCN sites nationwide.
Speaking on the delivery of the transformers, the acting Managing Director, (TCN) Mr. Sule Abdulaziz, said that the contract for the supply of the transformers, under the Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project (NETAP), was funded by the World Bank.
He said that TCN would decide on the project sites the transformers would be installed.
Abdulaziz said that once installed and connected to the grid, the ten 60MVA 132/33kV power transformers and the five 50MVA 330/132kV transformers would add 637 Mega Watts (MW) and 850MW respectively to the transmission network.
“Consequently increasing the total capacity of the transmission system by 1487MW while ensuring N-1 reliability criteria in the sub-stations, which is strategic in enhancing grid stability”.
Abdulaziz explained that in Aug. 2021, the World Bank also funded transformer supply contracts which brought in 10 60MVA132/33kV transformers and 25 earthing transformers.
Out of the ten 60MVA transformers, five were installed in Karu and Gombe sub-stations, while two were currently being installed in Kano, and one in Lagos State.
“This is the first time in the history of TCN that it took delivery of large numbers of transformers within a short period.
” These are milestone achievements for TCN, as it strives to implement its short-term development plan under the Nigerian Electricity Grid Maintenance, Expansion, and Rehabilitation Programme (NEGMERP).
“The World Bank-sponsored NETAP project is one of the TCN donor-funded projects aimed at expanding the transmission grid while also prioritising maintenance of the existing transmission infrastructures,” he said.
Abdulaziz added that TCN was equally executing several projects funded by the Agence Français de Développement (AFD), the French development agency.
He also said that the processes for projects, funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB), was progressing very fast, such that TCN would soon sign contracts for 330kV & 132kV Substations.
The MD said that the procurement of consultants for projects funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), would also soon commence.
Share this on WhatsApp