Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The tension has continued to escalate over military hostilities in the border territory of Ukraine, as fear heightens over possible invasion of Ukraine by Russia whose troops have mounted surveillance in the Ukraine border.  According, President Joe Biden of the United States of America (U.S.) on Friday told American nationals to depart Ukraine immediately, referring to a report of his top diplomat on Friday that a Russian invasion could come “any time”, denoting that military clashes are becoming imminent.
Russia has continued to deploy thousands of troops on the Ukraine border; while dialogue on avoiding war has also continued between the big powers which include France, U.S, Germany, and others. Biden issued a strong warning to US citizens to vacate Ukraine immediately.
Biden on Friday declared: “American citizens should leave, should leave now. “We’re dealing with one of the largest armies in the world. This is a very different situation and things could go crazy quickly.”
The U.S. Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, had raised red alert to the Asia-Pacific allies, that Russian President Vladimir Putin may be days, or even hours away from launching a war in continental Europe.
“We’re in a window when an invasion could begin at any time, and to be clear that includes during the Olympics,” Blinken said.
The U.S. has also been deploying troops and military hardware to Ukraine to defend the territory.
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday acknowledged that in the event of war with Ukraine, they are aware that Europe will be drawn into the war. Putin cautioned that Russia is a strong nuclear power in the world and has nothing to fear.
The world may be witnessing a rehash of the 1962 Cuban missile crisis during the years of the Cold War. Russia, then U.S.S.R., had moved into Cuba to defend the country against U.S. invasion. Both the U.S. and Russia had mounted war weapons for action, but the sudden intervention of the British Prime Minister, Churchill saved the world from a devastating military hostility. In the current tension in Ukraine, France, Germany and other European countries have engaged in deep diplomatic negotiation with Russia to avert an explosion of large-scale war involving U.S. and Russia and other NATO members.
 
Share this on WhatsApp