Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveSenate advocates improved healthcare for Nigerians.
 
Sen Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe North), President of the Senate, has reiterated calls for improved and enhanced healthcare for Nigerians.
Lawan made the call at the inauguration of the National Executive Committee and Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), in Abuja.
The Senate President, represented by Sen Ibrahim Yahaya (APC, Kwara Central), Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, said the health sector remained the most crucial in building human capacity.
“We are in a time in our history where human capacity, especially in the health sector, is most crucial.
“As witnesses to COVID-19 pandemic, we saw the need for improved health management, including personnel enhancement,” he said.
Lawan, who charged pharmacists to continue to do their best in health management, said healthcare was a collective responsibility of all in nation building.
Prof Lilian Salami, Vice Chancellor, University of Benin and keynote speaker, emphasised the need for re-ignition of the fire of developmental politics.
Salami expressed concerns over the dearth of passion and political will to impact positively on both the individual and the people.
“The fire of developmental politics has burnt out and needs to be re-ignited.
“Professions are not any different, there were times when people chose professions for the love of it.
“People sought to be pharmacists and nothing more, they could see themselves solving the problem of society by doing that.
“Many of our youths no longer seek to be doctors, accountants, for what they can give to the society, but it is what they can get from the society.”
The don, who blamed the rot on economic dislocation, indicted parents who often mounted pressure on both children and lecturers to go for courses believed to be gainful.
“The poor economic condition makes parents to direct their children into certain professions, regardless of whether or not the children have the flair or zeal for those professions.
“As a Vice Chancellor, I can tell you the pressure for admission request into specific courses is overwhelming.
“And the simple reason is that parents are afraid that their wards may not be gainfully employed when they graduate.
Share this on WhatsApp