Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola is losing his marbles gradually as he now goes public in his feud with the APC leader and presidential aspirant Bola Tinubu.
‘We have sworn to God that whoever compares himself to Him, we’d beg Him to bring down such a fellow,” the Osun former governor said while addressing his faction of the state APC in Ijebu Ijesha Tuesday.
The state is preparing for its guber primary Saturday, and Gov. Gboyega Oyetola will be fighting it out with Aregbesola’s man Moroof Adeoti.
Argebesola has been angry with Tinubu fr not calling Oyetola to order, saying the APC national leader brought Oyetola to him in 2018 to continue the good work his administration started.
“We followed and served this leader with all our might. In fact, our loyalty to him had caused some people to start wondering if we were no longer Muslims,” he said.
“But we were with him and served him according to the admonition of our forefathers, who said when serving anyone, we should do so with sincerity and loyalty; that if you regard anyone as your principal, you must serve him wholeheartedly.”
Aregbesola wasn’t serving Tinubu for nothing all along.
He was commissioner in Lagos for eight years while Tinubu was governor. He had his forer boss support when he went to Osun to contest the state governorship election which he worn twice.
President Muhammadu Buhari thereafter appointed him as minister, making Argebesola one of the holdovers in the southwest politics, serving for more than 20 consecutive years in public offices.
But Aregesola insists now Tinubu  “didn’t think good of us”.
“However, because we placed him higher than where he ordinarily should be, he started to think he is our god.’
He said Oyetola will be treated the way the APC Lagos treated former Gov Akinwumi Ambode who also derailed.
Ambode recently hit at Argebesola for mobilizing against him because he didn’t award Lagos construction contracts to the minister.
Share this on WhatsApp