Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 



Guavas are tropical crops with yellowish- green skin that sprout on tree branches in Central and South America. In India and China, guava leaf tea is used to treat diarrhoea and vomiting. The fruit’ s flesh has long been used to treat injuries in places such as Mexico.
Diabetes type 2
Guava leaf tea may certainly assist people with type 2 diabetes to decrease insulin resistance and blood glucose levels. A review found that guava extract contains substances that help to decrease glucose uptake after a plate of food.
Guava leaf extract may aid in the regulation of glucose absorption following lunch, which could explain these benefits.
The leaves, fruit, and seeds of the guava tree are all safe to eat. This plant’ s leaves are used to treat a variety of conditions.
According to early studies, chemicals discovered in guava leaf extract may assist with a range of infections and cognitive problems, including period cramps, diarrhoea, the flu, type 2 diabetes, and cancer.
Diarrhoea
Guava leaf tea is a classical diarrhoea cure in many parts of the universe. In a study published, this extract was given to animals suffering from contagious diarrhoea. Mice that consumed guava leaf extract recovered quicker than mice that did not consume it.
Many individuals believe that eating guava seeds causes appendicitis. A study found that vegetation residues do not cause appendicitis in general.
The occurrence of acute appendicitis induced by flowers is extremely low in all appendectomized sick people. The seeds of the guava fruit are perfectly safe to consume.
Guava seeds have no negative side effects as long as you don’ t eat too many of them (and they are nutritious).
Guava seeds act as a purgative when consumed or ingested whole, promoting frequent bowel mobility. They are among the most nutrient- dense foods on the market. Constipation is no longer a problem for individuals who consume guava seeds on a daily basis.
Guava seeds are high in antioxidants, fibre, and potassium. Dietary fibre is exactly what you need to maintain regular and hygienic bowel movements.



Share this on WhatsApp