Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


A 68-year old woman, Jeanie Evans is said to have died of anaphylaxis due to COVID-19 vaccination, autopsy report conducted on her corpse has revealed.
According to the autopsy report, obtained from the Shawnee County coroner’s office through a Kansas Open Records Act request, Evans said her airway felt blocked about 15 to 20 minutes after she received her first dose on March 23, 2021.
She was taken by ground ambulance at 5:21 p.m. to Stormont-Vail hospital, where she died at 11:55 a.m. the next day.
Evans had a medical history of hypertension, environmental allergies, allergic disorders and reactive airway disease. She previously experienced an anaphylactic reaction to the drug Albuterol, the report said.
READ ALSO: France drops COVID-19 test for vaccinated travelers  
According to Mayo Clinic, anaphylaxis is a “severe, potentially life-threatening allergic reaction” that can occur within seconds or minutes of exposure to something you’re allergic to.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) website states anaphylaxis after COVID vaccination is rare and occurs in approximately five people per 1 million vaccinated in the U.S.
According to the most recent data from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System — co-managed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and CDC — there have been 2,300 reports of anaphylaxis following COVID vaccines, where the reaction was life-threatening, required treatment or resulted in death.
Members of Evans’ family last April hired Lynn Johnson, of the law firm Shamberg, Johnson and Bergman in Kansas City, Missouri. But Johnson told the Topeka Capital-Journal on Tuesday he chose not to pursue legal action on their behalf.
Vaccine makers exempt from liability for injuries caused by their products.
READ ALSO: Court rejects Pfizer, FDA bid to hide COVID vaccine safety data
As The Defender reported July 8, 2021, under federal law, vaccine makers are shielded from liability, leaving people who are injured by COVID vaccines and their family members with little recourse.
In 2005, Congress passed the Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act (PREP), which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to issue a declaration providing immunity from tort liability for claims of loss caused by medical countermeasures (e.g., vaccines, drugs, products) against diseases or other threats of public health emergencies.
On Jan. 21, 2021, HHS amended the act, extending the liability shield to include additional categories of qualified persons authorized to prescribe, dispense and administer COVID vaccines authorized by the FDA.
In exchange for immunity for vaccine makers, under the PREP Act, the federal government pledged compensation for adverse reactions to COVID treatments and vaccines through a program called the Countermeasures Injury Compensation Program (CICP), run by HHS.

Culled from The Defender
Share this on WhatsApp