Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Ahead of the 2023 general elections, there have been intensified discussions, by prominent individuals and political stalwarts, about the political future of the ruling party in the country, All Progressives Congress (APC).
Noticeably, there has been rising of political tensions among members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) about whom would become the Presidential candidate of the party, for the forthcoming 2023 general elections.
Therefore, the proposed meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and all the presidential aspirants under the platform of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), may definitely center on possible issues which would be discussed, at length, hereafter.
Remarkably, it could be recalled that among those members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who have expressed interested to vie for the presidential ticket of the party are the former Executive Governor of Lagos State and a National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Executive Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; Former Executive Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha; Executive Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, among other prominent members of the party who would still be joining the race for the presidential ticket of the ruling party, APC, ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Considerably, there are two critical issues that President Muhammadu Buhari may want to discuss with the presidential aspirants under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in the said meeting.
1. Zoning
Considerably, President Muhammadu Buhari may want to appeal to all presidential aspirants under the platform of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), who hail from Northern part of the country to step aside, amicably and allow the Southern part of the country to take turn.
It could be recalled that zoning is one of the most critical issues that are being considered by leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), at the National level. Mr. President may, peacefully, want to use the honor of his office to resolve this issue.
2. Charge All To Be Democratic
President Muhammadu Buhari may, definitely, appeal to all the presidential aspirants under the platform of the party, All Progressives Congress (APC), to maintain peace and orderliness, in the course of vying for the presidential ticket of the party.
President Muhammadu Buhari may decide not to back any presidential candidate, but he would definitely charge all to be more democratic in the contest for the presidential ticket of the party.


Share this on WhatsApp