Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveINEC to deploy new technology for Plateau by-election –official.
 
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced that it had deployed the INEC Voter Enrolment Device (IVED) for the Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency and Pankshin South state Constituency by-election slated for February 26.
Plateau INEC Head of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and Registry Mr Tol Wakili said at a stakeholders meeting on Friday in Jos, that the machine uses a software known as Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS).
Wakili said that the machine was a massive improvement from the card reader machine that was deployed in previous elections.
The HOD said that unlike the card reader, the BVAS would identify finger prints and faces of registered voters.
“Wakili said that machine was used for the dual purpose of identification and authentication.
“In case the finger print fails, the machine would capture the face of the voter.
“Both of them cannot fail at the same time, if that happens it means the person with the Permanent Voters Card is not the owner,” he said.
According to him, the card reader had loopholes that desperate politicians explored and used to undermine INEC’s efforts at credible and transparent elections.
INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Plateau, Mallam Halilu Payi, said that the stakeholders meeting was part of the activities to have a fair, credible and transparent by-election in Jos North/Bassa and Pankshin.
Payi stated that the stakeholders meeting was one of the critical platforms that INEC used to carry all stakeholders along.
Election activities hold around political parties and they need to be aware of their roles, adding that if they failed to understand their roles, the election may not be successful.
“We are here to brief the stakeholders, including security agencies, on the things we need to do before that actual day of election.”
He further said that a total of 652,581 registered voters were expected to participate in the elections, made up of Bassa Local Government with 145,904 registered voters, Jos North, 453, 556, while Pankshin South had 53, 121.
He stated that the ongoing continuous voter registration was preparatory to the 2023 election and not for the by-election.
He said that those who just registered and were yet to get the PVC would participate in the by-election.
The state Commissioner of Police, Bathlomew Onyeka, assured the stakeholders that the security agencies were fully prepared for the by-election.
Onyeka, who was represented by ACP Yusuf Ishak, advised the stakeholders to step down the information concerning the elections.
He warned that security agencies would not condone lawlessness during the elections.
The National Daily reports that traditional, religious and civil society organisations, as well as other stakeholders attended the meeting.
Share this on WhatsApp