Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
It is no longer news that some top members of Nigeria’s ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), have already declared their intentions to run for President in 2023. Notable among them is Bola Tinubu, a former Governor of Lagos state, and the party’s national leader.


Aside from Tinubu, two sitting Governors, Dave Umahi of Ebonyi state, and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, have equally joined the race. At the same time, the likes of Senator Orji Uzor, and Rochas Okorocha, have also declared their intentions to contest the 2023 presidential election.
Some others, particularly those from the Northern part of the country, are also expected to join the race for the 2023 Presidency in the coming days. This has undoubtedly created a form of tension within the party, as each of these aspirants, is scheming to outplay each other, and secure the party’s nomination.

Arguably, the numerous interests in the APC 2023 presidential ticket, if not contained, could tear the party apart even before the 2023 presidential election. It should be recalled that for a while now, there have been agitations for zoning of the 2023 Presidency to the Southern region. At the same time, the North is also insisting that it has about four more years to rule before power could be returned to the South.
As a result of the agitations for zoning, particularly to the South-East region, which had neither produced a President, nor a Vice President since the country returned to democratic rule in 1999, any mistake in nominating a candidate that is not well-received by the majority of APC members, could see the party collapse ahead of the 2023 election.
In view of this, the proposed meeting between President Buhari, and all the 2023 presidential aspirants under the APC, the party could be saved from collapsing. The reason for this is that such a meeting would offer the party, an opportunity for the President, to personally remind the aspirants, that they should not place their ambitions above the party’s interest.
It is also an opportunity to remind the aspirants that it is only one of them that can emerge as the party’s flag-bearer, and why they should join hands to support whoever emerges as the party’s 2023 presidential candidate. In my view, when we consider the President’s influence, and the likelihood that these aspirants would respect him, one may not be wrong to say that the meeting could save the APC from collapsing ahead of the 2023 general election.

Arguably, such a meeting would help to foster unity among the aspirants, and also encourage them to accept the outcome of the party’s primaries in good fate, irrespective of who emerged as the party’s flag-bearer for the 2023 presidential election.


Share this on WhatsApp