Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveInformation reaching National Daily Newspaper www.nationaldailyng.com suggests that some members of the daredevil armed robbers who wreaked havoc in Uromi, Esan North East LG of Edo State have been apprehended.
It would be recalled that dare devil armed robbers had late Thursday evening carried out what many persons had termed coordinated armed robbery attacks on some commercial banks in Uromi, Esan North-East Local Government Area of Edo.
It was learnt that Ubiaja youths were able to block Ubiaja Road by the rail line, which forced the robbers to abandon their cash-laden vehicles off the rail line and flee in motorcycles.
READ ALSO: Horror! Armed robbers attack banks, terrorize, kill residents, security agents at Uromi
In a statement signed by spokesman of Edo State Police Command, SP Kontongs Bello, the command in conjunction with local Vigilantes accompanied by Chief John Odijie, the Oniha of Ubiaja led by the Divisional Police Officer of Ubiaja acting on credible information that some vehicles suspected to have been used by armed Robbers in Uromi Bank robbery operations were seen hidden in Oruen Quarters Bush of Ubiaja in Esan south East Local Government Area of Edo State.
He said on receipt of the  information the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ubiaja  mobilized his men to the location and recovered the following vehicles and items; One Red Colour Camry car with Reg.No. EZA 105 KJA, One ash Colour Camry Car with Reg. No. KWL 19 DU, One Dark Ash colour corolla car with Reg. No. UBJ 734 SZ, One Lexus 330 car with Reg. No. AAA 973 FL, One Red Q. Link M/CYCLE with Reg. No. EZA 105 QN, One Red Day Long M/Cycle with Reg. No. ENU 204 QL.
Also two small bags containing women Items, one Union Bank ATM card and cash sum Thirty four million, five hundred and ten thousand Naira only (34,510,000.00).
Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police Edo state police command CP Philip Aliyu Ogbadu while sympathizing with the families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident promised not to relent until all those behind the attack are brought to face the full wrath of the law.

Share this on WhatsApp