Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently released the list of 28 companies that were beneficiaries of N23.2 billion from the first cycle of the 100 for 100 Policy on Production and Productivity (PPP).
This scheme, which started on November 1, 2021, will select 100 private sector companies with projects that have the potential to significantly boost local productivity and the foreign exchange generating capacity of Nigeria.
The initiative, which will be bank-led, will be rolled over every 100 days (quarterly) and a new set of companies will be selected for financing under the initiative.
Nigerian entrepreneurs wishing to get funding for their existing businesses or start-ups can apply for the loan and if their business aligns with the CBN’s objective to stimulate the economy.
READ ALSO: Group prods CBN Chief  to jostle 2023 presidency
Manufacturing, agribusiness and agro-processing, extractive industries, petro-chemicals and renewables, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, logistics services and trade-related infrastructure, and other activities as prescribed by the CBN are all included in the project.
The initiative will be funded through the CBN’s Real Sector Support Facility-Differential Cash Reserve Requirement (RSFF-DCRR) window or any other window that the Bank determines.
Long-term loans for equipment and machinery procurement, as well as working capital loans, will be part of the 100 for 100 PPP intervention. The initiative’s maximum lending ceiling is N5 billion. CBN approval is required for applications worth more than N5 billion.
Term loans must have a maximum tenor of 10 years, depending on the project’s complexity, and must be paid off by December 31, 2031. The working capital arrangement will have a one-year term with the option to roll it over for up to three years. A two-year moratorium will apply to term loans.
READ ALSO: Naira falls again as CBN moves to stop forex sale to banks
The interest rate shall not exceed 5% per annum (all-inclusive) up to 28th February 2022. Afterwards, interest on the facility shall revert to 9% per annum (all-inclusive) effective from March 1, 2022.
Collateral acceptable under the CBN’s Real Sector Support Facility applies to the 100 for 100 PPP initiative.
The monthly interest on the facility shall be amortized and transferred quarterly with principal repayments to the CBN.
Interested companies are to submit their applications to participating financial instruments (commercial banks) with requisite documentation, which include:
Evidence of company incorporation with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC); Three years of audited financial reports; Evidence of the company’s creditworthiness, including its promoters and directors.
A minimum of two credit reports of the company and directors; Business plan of the underlying project in need of financing; Detailed status report on project’s capacity utilization, production output, productivity/efficiency level, employment level, value creation; Detailed report on the post-financing economic benefit of the project.
Applicants shall notify CBN of submitted applications via a dedicated online portal https://100for100ppp.ng/ for tracking and monitoring application status.
 
Share this on WhatsApp