Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Lead counsel to the Oromonis in the on-going coroner inquest into the death of a Dowen College student has engaged the magistrate presiding over the coroner in a hot exchange.
Femi Falana (SAN) hurled a repartee when Mikail Kadri said the court is not a regular court, suggesting the magistrate was biased.
Lagos State Director of Public Prosecutions, Babajide Martins, had asked a witness questions pertaining to a report that had not been tendered before a court or served on all parties.
Martins had conducted an examination-in-chief on Sunday Soyemi, the Chief Pathologist of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, who carried out a second autopsy on late Sylvester.
The first autopsy in Warri was discarded, and was not tendered as an exhibit in court.
Falana raised an objection to Martin’s questions.
“This is not a regular court,” Kadri responded.  “You are already casting aspersion on the court and its person. I allowed all parties to speak, I listened to everybody. Learned counsel, I am not a tyrant. I try to listen to everybody.”
“You say this at your convenience,” Falana said. “There is no such impression. I’m not questioning you. I have no cause to question your integrity.”
Then Kadri spewed out his hurt.
“If you are not satisfied with me personally handling this inquest, the avenues are there. I fear nobody; I owe my duty to God,” he said.
“Learned silk is saying I do that at my convenience. Take that back.”
Then Falana complained of Martins speaking on a report that has not been served on the plaintiff.
Kadiri told him that if he needed time to review documents, he would grant him that time.
“Your lordship, if I have created the impression that I questioned your integrity, I take it back.”
The magistrate also apologised for his fever-pitch voice during the exchange.
Falana and his clients are insisting Sylvester Oromoni, 12, died after he was bullied and poisoned, though all the autopsies conducted so far disprove their claims.
Share this on WhatsApp