Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The crisis in the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) worsened on Monday, February 14, 2022, after the former governor of the state, Rauf Aregbesola, declared war on his erstwhile political leaders and associates.
The minister for interior affairs, who spoke with his loyalists in the Ijebu Jesa area of the state on Monday, said it is time to end the politics of godfatherism in Osun.
Aregbesola, who has been at loggerheads with the serving governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola, for about two years, said the governor will not return for a second term because he has derailed from the ideology of the APC in Osun State.
He added that Oyetola failed to consolidate his achievements in the state and should be rejected by members of the APC just like Akinwunmi Ambode was rejected by party members in Lagos State in 2019.
The 64-year-old minister said he trusted the APC National Leader, Bola Tinubu, but the ex-governor of Lagos State repaid him with betrayal.
Aregbesola accused Tinubu, a former APC interim chairman and ex-governor of Osun State, Bisi Akande, of foisting the current governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola, on the people, against popular will.
ALSO READ: Osun 2022: Intrigues as PDP, APC set for primaries
So, he chose Alhaji Moshood Adeoti to be his candidate for the APC primary election that will be held on Saturday, February 19, 2022.
Aregbesola, Tinubu, Oyetola, and Akande have been close associates for a long time. The minister served as a commissioner during Tinubu’s tenure as governor of Lagos State.
During Aregbesola’s tenure as Osun Governor, Oyetola, who is Tinubu’s family member, served as his Chief of Staff.
The reason for the current rift between the politicians is unclear to the public. But it is clear that the matter is a serious one.
In my opinion, Aregbesola doesn’t have the capacity to defeat the combination of Tinubu, Akande, and Oyetola in Osun State.
Although the minister has huge supporters in the state and beyond. However, his level of influence is lower compared to that of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.
Also, Governor Oyetola still has a good number of party stakeholders on his side. And it will be difficult to defeat an incumbent governor. Chief Bisi Akande is also a strong party leader who belongs to Oyetola’s camp.
In conclusion, it will be difficult for Aregbesola to win the battle against Tinubu, Akande, and Oyetola in Osun. However, anything is possible in politics. Aregbesola might have some strategies in place to win the battle. Let’s keep observing as the development unfolds.


Share this on WhatsApp