Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The Board of Trustees (BoT) of Tricycle Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria (TOOAN) has reiterated that Mr. Azeez Abiola retains Chairmanship position in the Association, tasking members to be of good conduct and display professionalism at all time.

In a statement signed by the Secretary TOOAN BoT , Prince Adeola Adegbite titled ‘ Keeping The Records Straight And A Word Of Caution To Members Of TOOAN ‘ issued on Monday, members were counseled on the need for good comportment in their daily dealings.

The leadership of the association said following the considered choice and ultimate endorsement of Mr Azeez Abiola (Istijabah) as Lagos Chairman of TOOAN by National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) National leadership, the stage is set to reorganize TOOAN in Lagos owing to decent manner of approach, obedience to constituted authority, abiding by the law of the state government and the constitution of Nigeria.

The BoT urged the general public and all TOOAN members in Lagos to cooperate with the Azeez Abiola led Care-Taker Committee in order to positively transform the transport sector in the state.

While advising its members not to engage in any violent acts in spite of any provocation, the BoT said “TOOAN remains an affiliate of NURTW as this is a decision we have taken long before now without any iota of doubts until those who pride themselves as lords-above-the-law came on stage. Nonetheless, NURTW is our sister Union and the terms of our relationship as an affiliate shall remain guided by TOOAN. It was our choice, without coercion, that we voluntarily name TOOAN as TOOAN OF NURTW.

“Each true & bona-fide member of TOOAN should therefore conduct himself or herself with civility at all times. We urge you to prove to the lawless ones that you are refined, disciplined and cultured. Show to those perpetrators of evil or crimes that you are not one of them.

”Be a good example of a genuine rider without any act of thuggery or hooliganism. Relate well with your passengers and project the Association in good light. Do not listen to those who are only interested in tarnishing your own image and reputation by instigating you into crimes and violence while they keep their own families and children away from implicating crimes. He who instigates you against others will one day instigate others against you. If you are a product of lies and deceit and you benefit from it, your gain can only be temporary.

“Today, usurpers, gate-crashers, interlopers, impersonators, liars and pretenders have infiltrated TOOAN, though few of them, trying to reap where they did not sow, they tell stories they know nothing about because they claim they have the backing of a lawless warlord.
“By their characters you shall know them. They disrespect, disregard, detest obeying elders and constituted authorities but would want to be obeyed. Their days in TOOAN are numbered.

“We are aware of the concocted and fabricated stories against Alh. Azeez Abiola, the TOOAN Lagos State Chairman after he was ambushed by Alh. Musiliu Akinsanya and mercilessly beaten with an intention to kill him along with three other TOOAN members at NURTW State office on February 10, 2022 despite the stern warning against any instigation of violence by the National President of NURTW.

“The law enforcement agencies are looking into that and would do the needful. Let the deceits and the liars continue in their trade, their descendants shall reap from their trade.
“Please, don’t be deceived into the belief that those perpetrators of crime are having the backing of Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu. It is a ploy to hoodwink you. It’s a pure blackmail against Jagaban. They know they lack integrity and their actions are evil, thereby looking for an alibi to justify their lawlessness. Don’t fall for it!

“Be cautious and guided not to contribute any amount to them in the name of trying to fight for you. Unless you are fooling yourself. Their intention is to continue to get you impoverished. Your interest is never their interest. Your money can only be sprayed at parties, turning you into cash cow while you labour to feed your family. Please wise up”, Prince Adegbite.


Share this on WhatsApp