Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Political Leaders have been dumping their Political Parties for another Political Parties. It should be recalled that Some Leaders of All Progressives Congress APC, had dumped the Party for PDP across the country.
However, some Leaders of the All Progressives Congress APC may not find it difficult to dump the Party for the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, irrespective of what they might be Passing through in the Party.
One of the APC Leaders that will never dump the All Progressives Congress APC, for the Peoples Democratic Party, is the former Governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola. Aregbesola is the Minister of Interior, and because of this, he may find it difficult to dump the Party.
ALSO READ: 2023: Why Tinubu’s game plan may backfire as Buhari allegedly plot to make Abdullahi Adamu APC chairman
It is no more news that Aregbesola and the incumbent Governor of the State, Gboyega Oyetola are fighting each other, over the Leadership of the Party in the state.
It should be recalled that Aregbesola supported the former Secretary to the state Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, who contested the Primary Election of the Party, against Governor Gboyega Oyetola.
Though, Governor Gboyega Oyetola has emerged as Governorship Candidate of the Party but the question is, can Oyetola wins the Forthcoming Governorship Polls in the State, without the support of Aregbesola?
The impression of Some People in Osun State, is that Aregbesola will dump the Ruling Party, All Progressives Congress APC for the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, to work against second term Ambition of Governor Gboyega Oyetola.
ALSO READ: 2 APC governors who may move against Tinubu’s presidential ambition
However, Aregbesola may find it difficult to dump his Party APC for PDP. The reason is that Aregbesola was trained by the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Aregbesola served as Commissioner under Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for eight years, before he became the Governor of Osun State.
Aregbesola belongs to Progressive family, and he has never dumped the Progressive family for the PDP. Therefore, it might be difficult for him to dump the APC for PDP.
Though, Aregbesola may direct his Loyalists to work against Governor Gboyega Oyetola’s Governorship Ambition, but Aregbesola will not find it easy to go to PDP.
Another APC Leader that may also find it difficult to defect to PDP, is the former Interim National Chairman of APC, Chief Bisi Akande.
It should be recalled that Akande is one of the strong Ally of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Akande was the former Governor of Osun state.
Chief Bisi Akande was one of the strongest follower of Late Obafemi Awolowo and Chief Bola Ige, and it may be difficult for Akande to dump APC for PDP.
It should be recalled that Chief Bisi Akande lost his second term Governorship Election bin 2003 and if at all Akande will join PDP, It is that time, he could have joined.
ALSO READ: Why the APC zoning formula could be a game-changer for the party in the upcoming elections
Chief Akande has never dump the Progressive Party for any reason, he remains committed to the Progressive Party.

Akande is not only a Progressive Leader, he is also a very straightforward and trustworthy Man and this is one of the reasons, Tinubu stood by him in 2003 to become the National Chairman of Alliance for Democracy AD.
The cordial relationship between Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Chief Bisi Akande, will also make it difficult for Akande to dump APC for PDP.


Share this on WhatsApp