Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Contest for the 2023 general elections is, politically, taking shapes as prominent politicians, political gladiators, opinion moulders, critical individuals, political parties, pressure groups and good citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria are paying more attentions to the forthcoming polls.
Noticeably, the 2023 general elections may not take much deviation from the profiles of political parties that vied for the same polls in the 2019 general elections. How Do I mean?
The 2023 contest for the presidential seat of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should be expected to be, predominantly, dominated by the ruling party in the country, All Progressives Congress (APC), and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
However, it could be noted that prominent politicians have been disclosing their interests to vie for the presidential seat of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, come 2023, under the platforms of both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Noteworthy, among those political icons who have shown interests to succeed the incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari, after the expiration of his second term tenure in 2023 is the former Executive Governor of Lagos State and a National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Arguable though, anywhere the name of this man, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is mentioned; politics, political sagacity, superior knowledge of defeating some political abracadabra and lot more come into the thinking. He is a successful political tycoon who has, convincingly, rose through paths with democratic wealth of experience, up to the political level where he operates, today.
Sometimes, people call him “the Kingmaker.” In fact, some people are of the opinion that his aspiration for Presidency is like that of a Kingmaker who wants to become a king.
However, how much do we think about the fact that his presidential ambition may affect the voting dimensions in the Southern part of the country?
Considerably, it is important to recall that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu hails from the South and, in this article, his projected performance at the poll may, sincerely, not be seen as being hyped.
In the Southwest where he originally hails from, with Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on the ballot as the presidential candidate of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), everyone should be expecting a mammoth crowd of electorates queuing behind him in full support. This is his home where he has had, direct or indirect, positive impacts on the success stories of majority of the Governors and other political bigwigs in the six states that make the region.
In the South South, All Progressives Congress (APC), may earn more votes from the electorates considering the influence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the politics of the region; his personal relationship with who is who in the region and his political consultative power.
Looking at the voting culture in the Southeast, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may not be given edge, in the course of earning much votes from the region, if Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is given the presidential ticket of the party. However, considering the political sagacity of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, he may use his influence to foster the performance culture of his party in the region to, at least, threaten a neck to neck voting dimensions in the region.


Share this on WhatsApp