Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
NATO at its meeting on the war in Ukraine resolved to send Rapid Response Force comprising land, air, maritime and special operations forces, to contain Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as increasing arms support to Kyiv. NATO declared commitment to defend its territory.
Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg of NATO on Friday said NATO will be deploying thousands of combat-ready troops to member countries near Ukraine.
Stoltenberg declared: “Allies are very committed to continue to provide support. We are now deploying the NATO response force for the first time in the context of collective defence.
“There must be no space for miscalculation or misunderstanding. We will do what it takes to protect and defend every ally, and every inch of NATO territory.”
Stoltenberg, after the Thursday consultation of NATO member states, disclosed the resolve to send 120 war ships to the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, 100 fighter jets with pilots, 100 fighter jets Estonia, north of Ukraine, Bulgaria on the Black Sea coast to the south, to protect the NATO territories.
Stoltenberg noted that NATO Response Force may be up to 40,000 troops, saying the organization would not be deploying the entire force.
NATO leaders had declared in a statement after the meeting: “We will continue to take all measures and decisions required to ensure the security and defense of all allies.
“We will make all deployments necessary to ensure strong and credible deterrence and defense across the alliance, now and in the future.”
Despite the NATO threats, the western group is cautious of the grave dangers of confronting Russian forces in the war in Ukraine.
Russia had threatened to respond immediately to any foreign inference in the war in Ukraine. Apparently, many have expressed concerns that any foreign interference may throw the entire Europe into a war never experienced in the world.
The United Kingdom refrained from sending troops to Ukraine, as the British Parliament said that UK does not have defence agreement with Ukraine.
Germany had also admitted it does not have the military strength to face Russia.
While NATO is relying on 40,000 troops, the US said that Russia moved between 100,000 and 150,000 troops to the borders of Ukraine, sailing 100 war ships in the Black Sea for the invasion of Kyiv.
Meanwhile, Russia on Saturday revealed its forces have destroys 821 military facilities in Ukraine.
China and United Arab Emirates at the UN security council meeting on Friday abstained from voting on the resolution to deplore Russia invasion of Ukraine, which was vetoed by Russia. China blamed NATO for disregard for Russian security and pushing inward to Russian space in eastern Europe.
Share this on WhatsApp