Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA political group, Nigerians Earnestly Ask4 Asiwaju Tinubu (NEAAT) 2023, says its support for Sen. Bola Tinubu’s Presidential ambition is due to his love for poor masses and betterment of Nigeria.
The National Coordinator of the group, Dr Samson Bilesanmi, made this remark at the national conference/inauguration of national and state executives of NEAAT and G57 Unity Forum on Tuesday in Lagos.
Bilesanmi said that Tinubu was not vying for the presidential seat to enrich himself because he was already rich and blessed.
He said that Tinubu was out to better the lot of suffering masses.
According to him, NEAAT has teamed up with other groups in response to requests and demands by majority of Nigerians home and in disposal to bring into fruition Tinubu’s ambition to lead the nation.
He said that Tinubu deserved to rule the country because of his notable achievements in human development and numerous help for the poor masses.
“Tinubu is a disciplined, visionary and missionary political leader. No doubt through him, we have a sustainable democracy in Nigeria. He was among fighters who spend his talent, treasure and time for the country.
“It is time for Tinubu to become the President of this country, not because he wanted to enrich himself with our taxes. No! He is extremely rich and blessed by the Almighty God.
“That the leadership of this group and others are declaring support for Tinubu was not for selfish reason.
“It is because of Tinubu’s sagacious managerial ability in productivity and wealth creation for the benefits of Nigeria and Nigerians regardless of creed, tongue or colour as a thoroughly detribalised Nigerian,” Bilesanmi said.
The coordinator, who commended Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for supporting the group’s mission, said that NEAAT was determined to mobilise support for Tinubu and the re-election of the governor in 2023.
Bilesanmi, who commended G57 Unity Forum for rooting for the governor’s second term, said that the group had already mobilise about one million members with Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs).
Also speaking, Mr Jude Idimogu, member representing Oshodi-Isolo Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly said: “Tinubu will never fail us. He is prepared, no other aspirants is as prepared as he.
“His record and history is intimidating. For us, he has everything he takes to rule. He has the capacity and vision. He deserves to lead. He has followers.
“Tinubu has touched the lives of a lot of us. It is the turn of Asiwaju and he will get it.”
Idimogu, inaugurated as the Patron of NEAAT, urged the newly inaugurated national and state officers of the group to pray and mobilise for Tinubu ahead of 2023 elections.
Idimogu, who described Tinubu as a detribalised leader, said he remained the best among the aspirants considering his impacts on the masses.
Also, Alhaji Abba Ndombari, the Deputy National President, NEAAT, added: “We have many big people in the north that cannot help their brothers but Tinubu gives us what our own cannot give us.
“We are ever ready to support Tinubu and wherever he says we should go, we will go and follow him. We, in the north, are the ones pleading with Tinubu to come and contest.
“If the Southerners are contemplating about Tinubu, we are not contemplating in the north about Tinubu. We are going with Tinubu and we will take Tinubu away from you if you are not ready.”
Mr Femi Afikuyommi, representing the All Progressives Congress (APC) said that Tinubu loved the masses so much that he could remove his eyes for the poor.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event brought together leaders of the group across various geo-political zones.
Share this on WhatsApp