Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The United Kingdom and other European countries which include Belgium, Estonia, and Lithuania, at the weekend ordered their citizens to leave Ukraine immediately in the fear of invasion by Russia.  The Foreign Office of Britain had directed British citizens in Ukraine to “leave now while commercial means are still available” as tension escalates in the Russia/Ukraine border conflicts. The UK also  warned against further travels to Ukraine at the moment.
The Foreign Office in an update on its website “now advises against all travel to Ukraine. British nationals in Ukraine should leave now while commercial means are still available.”
The O.S. White House National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, had on Friday told  Americans to immediately leave Ukraine, disclosing that invasion of the territory by Russia “is likely to begin with aerial bombing and missile attacks that could obviously kill civilians.”
The U.S. also updated its travel advisory on Ukraine to a level 4, the highest in its four-tier system, last Thursday. The U.S. Department of State further encouraged American citizens to avoid traveling to Ukraine “due to the increased threats of Russian military action and COVID-19.” The White House, accordingly, warned on Friday that any U.S. citizens still in Ukraine should leave in the next “24 to 48 hours.”
The U.S. travel advisory had cautioned that the U.S. government will be unable to evacuate Americans if Russian military action occurs in Ukraine. The government agency, therefore, enjoined American citizens in Ukraine to leave immediately through private or commercial means.
Some European Union countries which include Belgium, Estonia, and Lithuania trailed the U.S. and U.K. departure order and directed their citizens resident in Ukraine to leave immediately.
The Belgian foreign ministry published on its website that “Nationals who are currently in Ukraine and whose presence is not strictly necessary in the country are strongly advised to leave the country.”
The foreign ministry strongly cautioned that in case of a “sudden deterioration, communication links, including internet and telephone lines, could be seriously affected” and air links hampered. The ministry, therefore, warned against travel to Ukraine, noting that an evacuation cannot be guaranteed.
Share this on WhatsApp