Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

It is no more news that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress APC, and the Former Governor of Lagos State, is contesting Presidential race in 2023.
It should be recalled that Tinubu made it known to the Public, that he will be Contesting Presidential race, under the Platform of the All Progressives Congress APC, when he visited President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Presidential villa in Abuja.

However, The Peoples Democratic Party PDP is the main opposition Party, that can compete with Tinubu, in 2023 Presidential race. Though, Not all the PDP Presidential Aspirants of the Party, can compete with Tinubu in 2023 Presidential race.

One of the Northern PDP Leaders that can compete with Tinubu, is the Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal. Tambuwal is the Chairman of Governors’ forum and he can use his influence and his Position to compete with Tinubu.
He has never for once being indicted by any Antigraft agency for corruption the charges, levied against him.
Though, Tambuwal has not declared his Presidential Ambition, formerly to the public, but there are clear indications that Tambuwal may contest the Presidential race under the Platform of PDP.
Apart from the fact that Tambuwal is the Chairman of the Governors’ forum, he is the incumbent Governor of Sokoto State, and because of this, there will be enough resources for him to compete with Tinubu, if the Leaders of the Party can give him the Presidential ticket of the Party.
It should be recalled that Governor Tambuwal was the former Speaker of the Federal House of Assembly, when Goodluck Jonathan was President. This means that he is more influential to compete with Tinubu in 2023.

Another PDP Leader who can compete with Tinubu in 2023, is the Governor of Bauchi State, Governor Bala Mohammed. Governor Bala Mohammed deserves the Presidential ticket of the Party to compete with Tinubu in the forthcoming Presidential Election.
The reason is that Governor Bala Mohammed has Performed creditably well, as Governor of his state, and he will get the support of Prominent Leaders of the Party in the north to compete with Tinubu.
It should be recalled that Governor Mohammed was the Senator, who represented Bauchi South Senatorial District between 2007 to 2010.
He was also appointed as the Minister for Federal Capital Territory, FCT between 2010 to 2015. Therefore, Governor Bala Mohammed has enough resources to compete with Tinubu, if the Leaders of the Party, can give him the Presidential ticket of the Party.
Recently, the PDP Chairman Board of Trustees, Walid Jibrin commissioned the Multimillion Naira Hospital built by the Governor in the state, and he made it known to the Public that the Governor will get the support of Leaders of the Party, to realize his future Ambition, because of his outstanding Performance.
This shows that if Governor Bala Mohammed, can be given the Presidential ticket of the Party, he will get the support of the Leaders to compete with Tinubu, Provided Tinubu also as Presidential Candidate of the Party.
Though, The Governor has not formerly declared his Ambition known to the Public, but his Loyalists have been creating awareness over his Presidential Ambition in 2023.


Share this on WhatsApp