Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The federal government is currently struggling with the evacuation of Nigerian citizens trapped in war-torn Ukraine. The federal government delayed guidance foe the citizens resident Ukraine until Russia invaded the country on Thursday morning.
Meanwhile, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Thursday announced that the federal government is planning a special flight operation to evacuate Nigerians from Ukraine as Russia commenced military operations in the country.
The Ministry in a statement by the Director of Public Affairs, Francisca Omayuli, in Abuja on Thursday, declared: “The Federal Government of Nigeria has received with surprise, reports of the invasion of Ukraine by Russia.
“The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been reassured by the Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine of the safety of Nigerians in that country and measures being undertaken to keep them safe and facilitate the evacuation of those who wish to leave.
“The Federal Government wishes to assure the families with loved ones in Ukraine that as soon as the airports in the country are opened, it would assist in facilitating the evacuation of Nigerians who are willing to leave.
“In the meantime, the Nigerian Mission has confirmed that military action by the Russians has been confined to military installations.”
The House of Representatives in a motion by Ahmed Munir at plenary on Thursday passed a resolution for the immediate evacuation of Nigerians in Ukraine.
The lawmakers expressed fear that the situation may be too late, noting that the evacuation should have been done long ago.
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, endorsed the resolution to interact with the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, on the evacuation of Nigerians from Ukraine next Monday, February 28.
The Nigerian Embassy in Ukraine had at the commencement of military operations by Russia on Thursday, told citizens in the country to remain calm and take responsibility for their personal security and safety.
The Embassy in a statement declared: “The Embassy urges Nigerian nationals resident in Ukraine to remain calm but be very vigilant and be responsible for their personal security and safety.
“The Embassy wishes to add that should any of Nigerian nationals consider the situation as emotionally disturbing, such nationals may wish to temporary relocate to anywhere considered safe by private arrangements. They should, however, ensure that they do all the needful to validate all their resident documents for ease of return to the country when desired.”
Before the invasion, many countries, particularly, the US and European countries, including Ghana in Africa, have in the past two weeks tension was escalating in Ukraine, ordered their citizens to leave Ukraine.  The Nigerian government was silent until the war broke out on Thursday.
Share this on WhatsApp