Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Your eyes are the window to your soul, there are lots of things you can do to maintain your eye health and improve your vision, however, these include healthy lifestyle choices like eating well, stop smoking, exercise regularly, protecting your eyes from exposure to UV. Here are some tips you can follow to improve your eye vision and eye health.
Add key Vitamins & minerals in your diet:
Foods that contain all the essential vitamins like A,C,B,E as well as lutein (broccoli) can help your eyes to improve your vision with time, some of the important food sources of these essential nutrients are “carrots, red pepper, broccoli, spinach, strawberries, citrus, you can add foods which are rich in omega-3 fatty acids like flaxseed, salmon, etc.
Protect your eyes fro UVA & UVB Radiation from the sun:
The sunglasses are not only to look cool, wearing shades is one of the crucial steps you can take when it comes to improving your vision. You need to buy sunglasses that can block 99-100 % of UVA & UVB rays of sunlight.
Eye exercises:
while there’s no effective exercise for astigmatism, myopia, or hyperopia, there are some eye exercises which if performed with diligence can gradually help in improving your focusing issue and eyestrain. Such exercises are ” gentle palm massage, Eye- rolling clockwise and anti-clockwise, blinking eyes”.
Stop smoking:
Smoking reduces your eye vision with time like it has a negative impact on lungs, teeth, hairs, heart and other body parts, fortunately when you quit smoking from that first hour, your eyes, lungs and other body parts start to recover from its effects.
Get enough sleep:
Getting good sleep helps your mind and body to work more efficiently, when you are overtired your eyes can be more strained and feel gritty and dry. Getting a good amount of sleep helps in recharging your tired eyes and therefore helps in improving vision.
What’s more, if your eyes are not working properly due to improper metabolism of vitamin c, then u can take “Indian gooseberry” also known as “AMLA” which is a rich source of vitamin c. Amla helps to improve and preserve Eyesight…


Share this on WhatsApp