Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


It may seem weird to think, but there are countries in the world that do not have any rivers in them. These are for the most part desert nations, where precipitation and water sources are inadequate, and there isn’ t sufficient water stream to make any genuine rivers or riverbeds. Also, a portion of these nations is simply too little to even consider having rivers, (in the same way as other more modest islands, are city- states, or have only occasional water stream, which doesn’ t qualify as a long- lasting river.
Saudi Arabia, formally the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, is a country in Western Asia. It traverses by far most of the Arabian Peninsula, with a land area of roughly 2, 150, 000 km². Saudi Arabia is the biggest country in the Middle East and the second- biggest country in the Arab world.

Saudi Arabia is a country where there is no river by any means. Certainly, there are a couple of lakes to a great extent, underwater sources, and a desert garden in the desert, still, it polishes off twofold how much water drank by any emerging country on the planet.
The absence of precipitation truly intends that there are no rivers, lakes, or normal vegetation locales. Saudi Arabians have since quite a while ago depended on desert spring and water desalination offices to supply their day- by- day water needs.


Concerning Saudi Arabia’ s water supply, it depends on groundwater and water got from desalination establishes that eliminate salt from seawater. Wells, borewells, and different sources of groundwater can be found underneath the outer layer of the earth.
While 97% of Saudis approach consumable water, Saudi Arabia is named one of the most water- scant nations on the planet. The outright water shortage level is 500 cubic meters for every capita, each year. Saudi Arabia has just 89. 5 cubic meters per capita, each year. Notwithstanding significant degrees of water access in the Kingdom, serious overconsumption and absence of solid inexhaustible water sources have focused on this issue.

Saudi Arabia is the world’ s driving maker of desalinated water, which is created from seawater. Desalination, then again, is an incredibly energy- escalated process that requires a truckload of cash.


Share this on WhatsApp