Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love120 security personnel currently combating crime in Edo’s forests – Obaseki.
 
 
A total of 120 security personnel are currently in the forests of Ovia West and Ovia North-East Local Government Areas of Edo to flush out criminals.
Gov. Godwin Obaseki stated this on Tuesday in Benin while reviewing the state’s security situation for the month of February.
The review came after a joint security meeting with representatives of various security agencies in the state.
Obaseki said that the Security Council planned to deploy similar security squads in other forests in the state to prevent criminals from migrating to places currently enjoying peace.
He added that the council had resolved to begin to arrest and prosecute drivers of unregistered vehicles and those with covered number plates.
The governor noted that crime incidents reduced to 46 in February from 170 in January.
According to him, the council is working, proactively, to ensure security in communities where farmers/herders clashes are prevalent, especially as the farming season is approaching.
He said also that the council had approved to give necessary security backing to the newly-inaugurated Private Property Protection Law Enforcement Committee.
The committee, he said, would be expected to update the council with its activities regularly.
Earlier, the Commissioner of Police in Edo, Mr Philip Ogbadu, said the police had arrested many suspects, including three who had been on the police wanted list since June 2021.
Ogbadu said that three AK 47 rifles were also recovered from suspected kidnappers during the period under review.
In his remarks, Mr Henry Benamaisia, Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Commission in Edo said security agencies would immediately begin the arrest and prosecution of drivers of unregistered vehicles.
Benamaisia said that this was in line with the directives of the Security Council, adding that those with covered number plates won’t be left out of the arrest and prosecution.
Also speaking, the state’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Wole Iyamu, said Edo was poised to stamp out cybercrime.
This, he explained, was a decision taken at a meeting between the state governor and the EFCC.
Share this on WhatsApp