Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveCouncil urges maritime workers union to shelve proposed strike.
 
The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) on Friday urged the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) to call off their proposed indefinite strike billed to begin on March 1.
Mr Emmanuel Jime, Executive Secretary, NSC, made the appeal during a meeting with the President General, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Mr Adewale Adeyanju, in Lagos.
The National Daily reports that the union had issued a 14-day strike notice to the Federal Government over the refusal of the International Oil Companies (IOCs) to allow Stevedoring Companies access to their platforms to begin operations.
According to Jime, any disruption at the port can affect in a very tragic way the economy of the country.
“The conversation is about the notice to down tools, and we as a port economic regulator should ensure that there are little or no disruptions to operations at the port.
“We have to show concern when there is disagreement that has risen to a level to cause disruption, especially in the maritime space.
“We are also disappointed about the state of affairs that has led to this situation of giving the notice which has been recurring as far back as 2014 with regards to engagement of stevedoring companies.
“We are disappointed that what has come to stay as a policy is being abused and we will not stand by and see the policy, which will benefit the Nigerian people and assist in operations, is not obeyed,” he said.
Jime appreciated the union for staying off strike when the minister of transportation intervened earlier, noting that this showed that the union was disposed to listening.
“Obviously, it has gotten to a point whereby you believe that nothing else can be done and the only option being a strike, this can mean that you have probably exhausted every avenue.
“I plead with you to tarry a while just like you have done in the past to give negotiation a chance. This time with shippers council playing a midwife, because I will be meeting with the minister on this issue.
“I assure you that the council is ready to work with you to resolve this issue. In enforcing policy, I suggest that for IOCs that are not compliant, you can picket that IOC to send the right signal,” he said.
Responding, Adeyanju said that as a responsible leader, union, they do not back out anyhow, but follow due process and would not do anything funny.
He said that they believed in sincerity of purpose to come from employers of labour, and believed in working hand in hand with each other to achieve objectives.
Adeyanju said that the law of the country must be respected concerning stevedoring contract, berating but the IOCs for not doing so.
“The minister of transportation, two months ago, gave a seven days notice as regards compliance, and all the IOCs agreed to comply, but presently, the order has not been met.
“We have been given a mandate that the strike must commence and that is what is before you.
“The strike is imminent and it is way of telling the world that the IOCs are not bigger than this country,” he said.
Adeyanju wonderedwhy the IOCs were running away from their responsibility and preventing the stevedoring contractors from coming in.
“If they are not hiding anything, why won’t they obey the instructions of the minister of transportation? So, by next week, which is very close, we are not shifting ground on this issue.
“We cannot do such in their countries, so they must respect our laws,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp