Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) has raised alert over plot by an illegal self-proclaimed Interim Management Committee of ALGON to conduct election in Niger State. The association, therefore, issued a disclaimer on Abdullahi Maje and the purported ALGON Interim Management Committee (IMC) whose existence has since been nullified by the courts.
ALGON National President, Odunayo Ategbero; the ALGON Chairman in Lagos State,  Hon. Alabi Kolade David; and other,  ALGON leaders, in a joint statement declared:  “it has come to the attention of the National Executive Council (NEC) and the Board of Trustees of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) that one Hon. Abdullahi S. Maje, who is not a member of ALGON NEC or the Chairman of Niger State Chapter of ALGON, but the Council Chairman of Suleja Local Government Area, Niger State; in cohorts with some persons have continued to parade himself as the Chairman of a non-existent Interim Management Committee (IMC).”
The ALGON leaders stated that “Hon. Abdullahi Maje and his cohorts are currently plotting to conduct an illegitimate election for already extant National Executive offices of ALGON.”
They noted that “for clarification, ALGON as a responsible and responsive Association wishes the general public and Law Enforcement agencies to please note as follows:
“That Hon Alabi Kolade David Esq is the current National President of ALGON and also the Chairman of Lagos State Chapter of ALGON.
“That the Interim Management Committee (IMC) is not mentioned in and is completely alien to ALGON’s Constitution.
“That there is currently in existence a duly constituted ALGON National Executive Committee (Exco) and National Executive Council (NEC).
“That an FCT High Court Judgment of 29th March 2021 has nullified IMC and declared its membership null and void.
“That a Federal High Court Order of 20th December 2021 has thrown out a case filed by Abdullahi Maje to uphold the purported IMC.
“The general public is advised to beware of attempts by Abdullahi Maje to fraudulently obtain funds using ALGON’s name as ALGON does not engage in soliciting funds for its programmes and activities.
“That ALGON is an Association of diverse political parties drawn from a broad spectrum but unified by a firm commitment to grassroots development” the ALGON leaders clarified.”
The leadership of ALGON also clarified “That only ALGON NEC (meaning the 36 State Chapter Chairmen) or the National President (Hon. Alabi Kolade David) or 18 State Chapters of the Association, can summon an Emergency or Extraordinary meeting of the Association as provided in Article 9 of ALGON Constitution which states as follows:
“Emergency or Extraordinary meetings of the Association of which 1 month’s notice shall be given stating the purpose of such meeting can be called at any time by the Council or by the President or by resolutions from at least 18 chapters of the Association”.
ALGON, therefore, advised the general public “to please note that neither the ALGON NEC, nor the National President, nor 18 State Chapters of ALGON, have summoned any ALGON Emergency or Extra-Ordinary meeting for any purpose whatsoever.
“That the public is also advised to note that the only Organ of the Association that can summon the General Assembly is the NEC and NEC has not issued any notice of General Assembly as there is an extant National Exco in place.
“That all communications and inquiries about ALGON and its activities should be directed to its National Secretariat (under the headship of ALGON Director-General Hajiya Binta Adamu Bello) located at 6th Floor, WAEC Building, No. 10, Zambezi Crescent, Maitama, Abuja, Federal Capital Territory – ALGON shall not accept responsibility otherwise”, the ALGON leaders further clarified.
 
Share this on WhatsApp