Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the overtures of the Peoples Democratic Party to the governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state to decamp as worthless.
 It would be recalled that a chieftain of the PDP in Lagos, Ganiu Taofik had on Friday said his party was ready to receive the governor if he wants to get re-elected as governor in 2023.
In a statement on Friday, Seye Oladejo, Lagos APC spokesman, described PDP’s gubernatorial ticket as “worthless”, adding that Sanwo-Olu does not need the PDP to get re-elected for a second term in office in 2023.
Oladejo said the PDP should desist from its attempts to destabilise the ruling party through the “deliberate promotion of falsehood”.
READ ALSO: Sanwo-Olu unveils welfare program for vulnerable groups in Lagos
“While the thought of desperately offering its worthless electoral tickets to every passerby is laughable, the extent of the level of degradation, degeneration and comatose state of Lagos state PDP should not be lost on all and sundry,” he said.
“The platform that initially elected Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwoolu, having acknowledged his glowing performance across various sectors in his first term, is certainly still available to recontest for another term.
“While we sympathize with Lagos state PDP over its several years of political misfortunes and misadventures, good wisdom dictates that it puts its house in order to have a semblance of relevance.
“It’s pitiable that PDP could only think of fishing in the pool of capable talents in the APC while looking for people to offer its worthless electoral tickets.
“This underscores the lack of attraction in the PDP and an admittance of its usual Waterloo in the forthcoming elections.
“Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu hereby unequivocally rejects this Greek gift and hereby states that APC remains his party of choice in making his next political move, which will be made known in due course to all Lagosians.”
Share this on WhatsApp