Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Before you set off for a drive, it is ideal to find the right driving position when you get behind the wheel. Finding the right driving position isn’t just important from the point of view of comfort but also from the perspective of safety. Being seated correctly behind the wheel ensures that you have better visibility, your limbs can react faster to dangerous situations; and in most cases, also prevents back pain.
That is why I am bringing you this post on how to avoid some seating and driving positions.
Don’t Seat Too Far or Too Close to the Steering Wheel

If you’re sitting too far or too close to the steering wheel you risk severe injury in a crash. Make sure your hand should not be too stretched or too bent when holding the steering. So, stretch out your hands and make sure the steering is at your wrist level while your back is well rested on the back rest. This sitting position can relieve back pain while also protecting you in the event of a collision.
Driving With Your Hands at 10 and 2 of the Wheel
Holding the car’s steering wheel at 10 o’clock and 2 o’clock has become outdated. This method is used before airbags were common. When accident occur you are at great risk to end up with a broken arm in an accident. The recommended position of your hands is at 9 and 3 o’clock, with the thumbs placed along the rim rather than looping around it. In the event of an accident, the force of airbag deployment can send hands at the top of the wheel into your head or even break thumbs.
Your Leg Should Not Be Stretched Straight
We see fashionista drivers who push their car seat all the way back and end up stretching their legs out to use only their toes to press the throttle. When your leg is straight, shock waves can be sent directly to your pelvic area and spine, putting you in danger in the event of an accident. To avoid spinal cord injury, it is preferable to bend your leg at the knee.
Don’t Position Your Seat Too Low Or Too High
Don’t forget to adjust the height of your seat to a level that gives you a good view of the road ahead. If your seat is low it will be difficult to view the road when driving. Also, Sitting too high can make your legs interfere with the steering and your head can bump the roof of the car if there is a rollover. Sitting too high can also reduce blood flow to your lower legs due to excessive pressure on your thighs.
The Center of The Steering Wheel Should Be Tilted From Your Face
As much as possible, ensure that the center of the steering is not pointing directly to your face. It should be titled down towards your chest or trunk instead as you don’t want the airbag exploding directly on your face.


Share this on WhatsApp