Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love




 The Nigerian Volunteer Coalition Groups  (NVCG)  says if Sen. Bola Tinubu emerges President in 2023, Nigerian masses will smile considering the former governor’s antecedents of love for the poor and vulnerable.

The All Progressives Congress  APC National Leader, Sen. Bola Tinubu is one of the presidential aspirant hoping to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023.

The event, which brought together coordinators of various volunteer groups within APC was to endorse Tinubu Presidential ambition in 2023.

The Chairman of NVCG, Mr Kabiru Folohunsho said that the former governor had impacted lives of so many people across the federation from the North to the South and has the required competence and capacity to lead the nation into prosperity.



“Volunteer groups are huge in number. We are with Asiwaju Tinubu. We have the backing of the Nigeria Volunteer Coalition of Coordinators to endorse Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for 2023.

“This group is working underneath to bring into fruition Tinubu’s Presidential ambition. We belong to APC and we are expecting all our members to enjoy the dividends of being in the group.

“Volunteer groups had become so big that our members are in various groups and associations. We own the votes. We want to mobilise for Tinubu from door to door and street to street,” Folohunsho said.

He said that the coalition was not interested in food or other selfish gratifications, saying that all it wanted was good governance and political slots for members to contribute  quotas to the national development.

Mrs Abiodun Osiga, the Organising Secretary, NVCG said that Tinubu’s life had affected the entire nation, especially the masses, saying with him at the helms of affairs the poor would laugh.

Alhaja Omalara Anjorin, Coordinator, Great People’s Forum within NVCG said that the major task ahead for them was to mobilise and promote the aspirations of Tinubu, saying “we shall mobilise women to get Permanent Voter Cards and vote”.

Also, Pastor Joy Okupe, Coordinator, Peculiar People’s Mandate, said since politics was a game of number, the coalition was ready to mobilise various groups for Tinubu’s ambition.

“I have organised buses to mobilise people for the ongoing nationwide Continuous Voter Registration (CVR). We have been organising people to make sure they have their PVCs,” Okupe said.

According to Mr Oluwole Owolabi, Chief Coordinator, the Asiwaju Progressives Forum, members of the group spread across the six geo-political zones to support Tinubu in the 2023 presidential race.



Also, Princess Remi Ojomo, President of Dynamic Women Forum spread across the 57 Lagos State council areas, said that Tinubu deserved the position, having put smiles on  faces of so many Nigerians.

In her remarks, the Iyaloja General of Nigeria, Chief Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, who was represented Alhaja Halimotu Obani, described the endorsement of Tinubu’s Presidential ambition as laudable, saying “it is needful for the current situation in the country now”.

The Iyaloja  general, who is the Mother of the Day said that Tinubu’s Presidency would provide adequate opportunities for women, youths, people living with disabilities among others.

“Tinubu is the man of the people. He is the man of the old, of the young, women, men and all other group of people. We want this volunteer coalition groups to continue to mobilise for Asiwaju Tinubu,” she said.

The highlight of the event was the special prayers for Tinubu and his presidential ambition.







Share this on WhatsApp