Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


There are indications that some Governors under the Platform of the All Progressives Congress APC, may move against the Presidential Ambition of the National Leader of the Party, and the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in 2023.
It should be recalled that Tinubu had declared, that he will be Contesting Presidential race in 2023, under the Platform of the All Progressives Congress APC. Tinubu made this known to the Public, when he visited President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Presidential villa, Abuja.
However, Tinubu may not get the support of some APC Governors, to achieve his Presidential Ambition in 2023. One of the APC Governors that may not support Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition, is the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu.
It should be recalled that Atiku Bagudu is the Chairman of Progressives Governors Forum (PGF). Meanwhile, the Governor had earlier made it Known that, the National Convention of the Party will hold by February.
However, it was learnt that the Postponement of the National Convention, was as a result of the Plots to ensure that Tinubu’s Candidate for the Position of National Chairman of the Party, doesn’t emerge in the forthcoming National Convention of the Party.
Meanwhile, it was gathered that Bagudu who is the Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum, (PGF) with other Governors in the Party, Pionered how the National Convention was Postponed.
It was gathered that the Postponement will ensure the victory of Abdullahi Adamu, who happens to be the Chairmanship Candidate, of the APC Governors. It should be recalled that, President Muhammadu Buhari has embraced Adamu as Chairman of the Party in the forthcoming National Convention.
Another Point is that the Postponement, will give chance to other Presidential Aspirants in the Party, to restrategise ahead of the 2023 Presidential race before conducting the National Convention.
Meanwhile, The Endorsement of Abdullahi Adamu, as the National Chairman of the Party in the forthcoming Convention, may not give chance to Tinubu, to become the Presidential Candidate of the Party.
Therefore, Atiku Bagudu may not support Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition. Though, he may change his decision soon, but with what is happening in APC, it shows that Bagudu may not support Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition in 2023.

Another APC Governor, who may not support Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition, is the Governor of Kwara State, Governor Abdurasaq Abdulrahman. It was reliably gathered that the Governor was among the APC Governors, that worked in support of the Postponement of the National Convention of the Party.
It was earlier reported that Governor Abdurasaq Abdulrahman was among the Governors, who is working against Tinubu’s Candidate, Tanko Al-makura to become the National Chairman of the Party.
It should be recalled that Tinubu was appointed, to settle the rifts between Governor Abdurasaq Abdulrahman and the Minister of Culture and Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. Meanwhile, the Governor knew the cordial relationship between Tinubu and Alhaji Lai Mohammed.
This might be Part of the reasons why Governor Abdurasaq Abdulrahman, is not supporting Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition.
If Abdullahi Adamu, who has been endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari, with the support of some APC Governors, which Governor Abdurasaq Abdulrahman is one of them, could emerge as National Chairman of the Party, it means Tinubu may not emerge as Presidential Candidate of the Party


Share this on WhatsApp