Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It is no more news that, the Former Governor of Lagos State, and the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has declared his Presidential Ambition known, to the Public, that he will contest the Race, under the Platform of the Party.
It should be recalled that Tinubu, declared his Presidential Ambition, when he visited President Muhammadu Buhari, at the Presidential villa, Abuja. Tinubu informed President Muhammadu Buhari.

However, there are some factors that could determine Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition in my 2023, as he declares his Presidential Ambition, known to the Public. The first factor that could limit Tinubu, of clinching the Presidential ticket of the Party, is Religion.
Religious factor is an important factor that may affect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in 2023, if the Leaders of the Party, should capitalize on it. It should be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari is a Northern Muslim, and the Southerner, that will take over from him, may be Southern Christian.

Meanwhile, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who is from the South, is a Southern Muslim. Though, the zoning system of the Party, may favour Tinubu.
It should be recalled that the Leaders of the Party, has zoned the Presidential ticket of the Party, to the South, and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, stands better chance of clinching the Presidential ticket of the Party, but the Religious Factor, may hinder Tinubu.
ALSO READ: How the APC cabals’ move may affect Tinubu’s chances
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) may Prefer Christian Presidential Candidate, to clinch the ticket of the Party. Meanwhile, CAN has reasonable number of Population, and Power to influence the Presidential ticket for their ordained Presidential Candidate in any Party.
Another thing that could limits Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition in 2023, is Age. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Age is something important that should be critically looked into.
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu marked his 69th Birthday Anniversary last year, which means, he will be 70years of Age this year. Meanwhile, some Prominent Leaders in the country, have been clamoured for the emergence of Youth, as President.
It should be recalled that, the Former Head of State, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, made it known to the Public, last year that he won’t support, any Presidential Candidate, who is more than 60years of Age.
As a result of this, Any reasonable Political Party, may find it very difficult, to Present Presidential Candidate, who is more than 60years. Therefore, some Prominent Leaders in the country, may not support Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition, and it may be difficult for him, to clinch the Presidential ticket of his Party.


Share this on WhatsApp