Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFCTA, NCC partner on 5G broadband deployment in FCT.
 
The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, has expressed the readiness of the FCT Administration to partner with the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) on deployment of 5G broadband in the territory.
Mr Anthony Ogunleye, Chief Press Secretary to the minister, in a statement, on Sunday, in Abuja, said Bello, made the disclosure when he received a delegation of the NCC led by its Chairman, Prof. Adeolu Akande, on a courtesy visit.
He assured the NCC board and management that all pending issues concerning the deployment of telecommunication facilities within the territory, would be resolved with the collaboration of all parties.
According to him, this also included the payment of appropriate charges by telecommunication companies.
Bello, however, reminded his guests that providing infrastructure within the Federal Capital City, was expensive, and that things had been made for the easy deployment of telecommunication facilities.
He directed the setting up of a team, comprising the executive commissioner, technical services, NCC, the executive secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority, (FCDA) and Chief of Staff to the minister, to harmonise and resolve all outstanding issues.
The minister acknowledged the long and harmonious relationship existing between the NCC and the FCTA and extended the administration’s appreciation to the commission for its educational support to schools, within the FCT.
Earlier, Akande had disclosed plans by the NCC to deploy infrastructure to accommodate 5G broadband in the FCT.
He called for a partnership with the FCTA, to increase the number of possible technology deployment sites in the territory.
Also speaking, the Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, commended the minister and the management of the FCTA, for the infrastructural development in the territory.
Present at the meeting were the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr Olusade Adesola, the Executive Secretary of the FCDA, Shehu Ahmed and the Chief of Staff to the FCT Minister, Malam Bashir Mai-Bornu.
Share this on WhatsApp