Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The Igbo politicians have one target this time around. And the target should be to clinch the ticket of the All Progressives Congress for the 2023 presiential election. If it goes well with them this time, it will be the first time the ticket of major political party will land in southeast.
Having the APC ticket won’t take place on the platter of gold. They will need to work assiduously for it. And their work won’t be fruitful unless they drop their differences and join forces together. Simply put, they should work for consensus candidate.
Right now two key and powerful Igbo men have told Nigerians that they wanted to fly the APC flag in the election. And it will be the responsibility of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo to back the two of them up.
Mr. Orji Uzor Kalu, after a very thorough personal deliberation, has decided that he himself could become Nigeria’s president through the All Progressives Congress. He has said his desire and is working towards it.
He must have had a rethink after he had a meeting with the national leader of the APC, Mr. Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The leader’s ambition must have encouraged him to pursue his own course in the party.
Dave Umahi too is fully involved. His own declaration should have been expected. He actually and sincerely joined the APC for that purpose. It was the main reason he dumped the PDP for the ruling party.
More Igbo politicians would come out as a matter of fact. It is just about time for them to do so. Now, can they go to the APC primary election in fragments and expect victory? It is almost totally impossible. The chance is dismally low.
Let’s agree that the southwest region eventually presents only Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the APC ticket, will the Igbo politicians be strong enough to stop him? It is possible for them to do it collectively.
The easiest way out is that the aspirants should come together. They need to liaise and agree to let just one person go for the ticket. It depends on the modalities they prefer to use for the choice of the consensus candidate.
If by the end of the day one person is fielded as the consensus candidate, the rest is simple. They will all talk in one voice and push the candidacy of the person.


Share this on WhatsApp