Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love20 IDPs benefit from Hosa Okunbo’s posthumous education support scheme.
Not less than 20 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Uhogua, in Edo on Thursday benefitted from the late Capt. Hosa Okunbo’s Posthmous Education Support for indigent students.
The National Daily reports that the scheme was for 100 indigent students in public primary and secondary schools across the state.
Earlier in her remarks, Oloi Atuwase III, Wife of Olu of Warri and first daughter of the late Okunbo described education as very important and that her later father was keen about it.
She said that it was in view of this that she and her siblings decided to honour him on his 64 posthumous birthday by investing and transforming lives through education.
She encouraged the beneficiaries to see themselves as champions as they go to school daily, adding that it was gratifying that Edo and Lagos were blazing the trail in the education sector in the country.
Olori Atuwase III, further disclosed that the deceased rose to be a man of great impact and value through hard work and emphasised that the children could do same.
Similarly, Mr. Osahon Okunbo, first son of the late Okunbo said that the education support was being carried out because of what the late Okunbo believed in.
He said his father always wanted to give to the society, what the country gave to him, and urged the beneficiaries to strive to be selfless and embody the value of his late father.
He however disclosed that the idea to honour their father with the education support for indigent students in the state was conceived by Oloi Atuwase III.
Mr Kingsley Okunbo, younger brother of the deceased also urged the beneficiaries to take their education seriously.
He noted that there were no shortcuts to success and advised them to read their books as well as pray always.
“You have what it takes to succeed,” he said.
National Daily reports that 50 pupils from public primary schools got N75, 000 each and 50 students the including the 20 IDPs got N100, 000 each.
Share this on WhatsApp