Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


A medical doctor, Meryl Nass, has revealed that Public health authorities knew about chloroquine and other treatments for COVID-19 before there was a COVID-19 — because they had figured it out for the 2003 SARS epidemic and the 2012 MERS epidemic. But they hushed it up.
Dr. Nass stated that governments and pharma companies in multiple countries stopped the use of chloroquine drugs for COVID which also led to increased deaths and destruction from COVID and prolonged the pandemic.
She said Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) U.S. scientists (employed by the U.S. government), along with three Canadian government scientists, in 2005 published a paper showing chloroquine was an effective drug against SARS coronaviruses. European scientists showed the same thing in 2004.
READ ALSO: Pfizer admits COVID vaccinated persons face high risks of ‘untimely’ death
“Our governments already knew of options for treating COVID before it appeared — but instead of immediately trying these already identified, safe, cheap and available drugs, and offering early treatments, they did everything they could to stop people from obtaining the chloroquine drugs.
“South Africa was the trial balloon. On Christmas Eve 2020, South African authorities banned the importation of ivermectin. However, several local organizations mounted legal actions, and they won. Within several months ivermectin was back on the shelves.
“Thanks in great measure to the Frontline COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance, ivermectin’s popularity gradually began to explode. Then the CDC published a report in late August 2021, showing ivermectin prescriptions had quadrupled in a month, and the drug was now selling at 25 times the pre-COVID rate.
READ ALSO: COVID vaccine risk to human life can’t be ruled out, experts reveal
“Apparently, this terrified the powers that be. What if the pandemic got wiped out with ivermectin? It worked too well! Would that be the end of vaccine mandates, boosters, vaccine passports and digital IDs? The end of the Great Reset?
According to Dr. Nass, “Something had to be done and fast. It had to be big. It had to be effective. Public health officials couldn’t simply take the drug off the market — that would require a long process and would leave a paper trail.
“The powers that be could also scare the pharmacies. This required stealth — no paper trail. It required intimidation, backed by a one-two punch: actually suspending doctors’ (and maybe pharmacists’) licenses.
“Some powerful entity presumably ordered the wholesalers to make the drug (practically) unavailable — with no shortages announced. I called the main manufacturer in the U.S., Edenbridge, and was told they were producing plenty of ivermectin.
She also added that Hydroxychloroquine had been restricted in a variety of ways, determined by each state, since early 2020.
“It had also been restricted by certain manufacturers and pharmacy chains in 2020. Suddenly, in September 2021, it became considerably harder than it already was to obtain.
“They really wanted to make an example by going after the state’s chief medical officer, who had the guts to treat COVID patients. Clearly, the orders are coming from high up on the food chain.”



Share this on WhatsApp