Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveKebbi commences verification, payment of gratuity.
 
Kebbi State has commenced verification and payment of gratuity balance to civil servants in the state, who retired 2017/2018.
Alhaji Sufiyanu Garba-Bena, the Kebbi State Acting Head of Civil Service (HoS) made the disclosure while briefing Journalists in his office in Birnin Kebbi, the state capital on Friday.
The National Daily reports that the verification exercise covers all categories of retirees, including; State, Local Government and Local Government Education Authority (LGEA).
Conducting Journalists round while monitoring the ongoing exercise, Garba-Bena appreciated Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State for his magnanimity in approving the said amount meant for the payment.
The acting HoS said: “A 20 man committee was set-up to ensure credible verification of categories of civil servants across the state for payment of their gratuity.
“We must appreciate His Excellency, Sen. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for graciously approving the sum of N6 billion for payment of gratuity to state, local government and local government education authority (LGEA) retirees.
“Approval of N6 billion is to cover for payment of balances of 2017/2018 and for fresh payment of gratuity for retirees for 2019, 2020 and part of 2021.
“Also, the approval is to pay attention to gratuity only to state, LG and LGEA retirees. “
According to him, speedy payment will be recorded as soon as conflicting figures were reconciled between the Kwaido committee and that of the Acting Head of Service.
“The committee had already swung into action for successful verification and payment.
“Contrary to the news going the round that government has not approve the money. I want to assure the public that payment of screened pensioners had already started,” he said.
He used the medium to appeal to affected retirees who were yet to be paid to exercise patience, saying, “This exercise is meant to sanitise the system, I assure you that each one of you will get what is due to him/her in due course.”
Garba-Bena said the committee had already verified and settled 2017 and 2018 retirees, while work on 2019 had also commenced.
“I want to assure all the retired civil servants across the state that everyone will get paid as soon as he or she is verified.
“It is worthy to note that His Excellency too, is worried about the plight of retired workers and he is committed to making you happy at all cost,” he noted.
Share this on WhatsApp