Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Lemon water is a popular home remedy, it is packed with lots of nutrients and a variety of medical benefits. It can help improve digestion, promote weight loss, enhance energy metabolism and levels as well as detox the body. Lemon water is simply water mixed with the juice of lemons.
1. It aids in hydration
Water is the ideal hydration beverage, yet some people dislike the taste of water on its own. The addition of lemon improves the flavour of water, which may encourage you to drink more of it.
2. It contains a lot of vitamin C
Citrus fruits, such as lemons, are high in vitamin C, a major antioxidant that protects cells from free radical damage. You’ve certainly heard that vitamin C can help prevent or shorten the length of a common cold in some people, but research is mixed.
Vitamin C may minimise the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke as well as lower your blood pressure. While lemons aren’t the most vitamin C-rich citrus fruits, they’re nonetheless a good source.
3. It aids in weight loss
Polyphenol antioxidants present in lemons have been demonstrated in studies to considerably prevent weight gain in rats that have been overfed in order to induce obesity.
The antioxidant chemicals also counteracted the unfavourable effects on blood glucose levels and reduced insulin resistance, both of which are major contributors to the development of type 2 diabetes.
4. It improves the quality of your skin
Lemons include vitamin C, which may help prevent skin wrinkling, dry skin from ageing, and sun damage. Water’s ability to improve skin is debatable, but one thing is guaranteed. If you lose moisture from your skin, it becomes dry and prone to wrinkles.
According to one study, a citrus-based drink can help reduce the development of wrinkles in hairless mice.
5. It also improves digestion
Many people use lemon water as a laxative in the morning to aid prevent constipation. Drinking hot or warm lemon water first thing in the morning may help your digestive system get working.
According to studies, the sour lemon flavour stimulates your agni. A strong agni kick-starts the digestive system, allowing you to digest food more efficiently and helping to prevent the building of toxins.
6. It freshens the breath
Have you ever used a lemon to remove the bad breath of garlic or any strong odour from your hands? The same home remedy cure may be applied to bad breath induced by eating strong-smelling foods such as garlic, onions, or seafood.
Drinking a glass of lemon water after meals and first thing in the morning can aid you avoid bad breath. Lemon is known to stimulate saliva, and water helps prevent dry mouth, which can lead to bacteria-caused bad breath.
7. It aids in the prevention of kidney stones
Lemons contain citric acid, which may aid in the prevention of kidney stones. Citrate, a component of citric acid, paradoxically reduces the acidity of urine and may even dissolve tiny stones. Drinking lemon water provides you with not only citrate, but also the water you require to assist avoid or flush out stones.
According to research, lemon water has numerous possible health benefits. Aside from that, adding lemon to your water might help you drink more water throughout the day and stay hydrated. Staying hydrated is essential for good health, so lemon water is a no-brainer.


Share this on WhatsApp