Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love




The Green Alliance (TGA) have pleaded with  the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Dr. Godwin Ifeanyinchukwu Emefiele to throw his hat in the ring for the  2023 presidency race.

The CBN boss according to the Convener of  TGA, Mr. Wale Fapounda should contest on the All Progressives Congress platform to continue the good works of President Mohammadu Buhari

Fapounda said this at a well attended unveiling of the group and their preferred candidate in Lagos on Saturday, he added that the need for a paradigm shift in the political arrangement of the country is most required now.

Berating  the fact that the arrangement had tilted towards the politicians in time past.

“We have been repeating politicians over and over again, we feel we need a technocrat on board.”

Commenting on why it must be Dr. Emefiele as President come 2023 Fapounda said,”with Dr. Godwin Emefiele holding the reins of power, agitations from his part of the country will have been calmed.

“He was made the Governor of CBN by PDP  government but owing to his sterling qualities, he was retained by the APC administration for his financial resilience and resourcefulness.

“Through the CBN Act 2007 ammendment, he introduced the rice revolution-Anchor Borrower’s Programme (ABP) to force down rice importation which resulted in the much celebrated rice pyramid.

“He has also through deliberate revamping of the Small Medium Scale enterprise and various Agriculture innovations rejigged the economy.

“This forum plead, beg, if possible compel Dr. Godwin Emefiele to run for presidency come 2023.” Said Fapounda.

The Co-Founder TGA Mr. Valentine Gabriel who took out time to appraise the impacts of Dr. Emefiele during the COVID-19 pandemic era, giving succour to many as well as various intervention mechanisms geared at retooling the economy.

Added that, he will deliver,given his rare capacity, clearly absent in most of the other aspirants on ground for the topmost post in the nation.


“He understands the way the economy runs, a detribalized Nigeria with a good grasp of the demographics of Nigeria, given his exposure and networks of influence, he sure will fare better as our President.”

Barr. Akin Osomo of Youth Alliance of Good Governance, one of the constituents of the TGA movement, while speaking at the forum, affirmed the capabilities of Dr. Emefiele in administering Nigeria.

According to Osomo their request is that  Dr. Godwin Emefiele an astute finance and insurance expert, who has really made his mark in the corporate world and interface  those that matter in the economy of Nigeria run for presidency.

“We declare our support for him to come out and contest for the highest post in the country.

“We have entrusted him with our money,Nigeria’s finances and the testimonials are evident,we declare our support and request him to jostle for the office.

“Get your PVC, we desire a round peg in a round hole. It is time to ensure peace,progress and prosperity and he stand the only one who can.”

Others who also corroborated the earlier assertions are, Mr. Victor Owo, Ambassador Daniel Omonze and Angela Awele Azufor of Women in Politics a group with an alleged over 2million members as well as the Royal Women in Politics.









Share this on WhatsApp