Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State on Saturday cautioned against provocative statements from the north over zoning of the 2023 presidential ticket. The Rivers State governor at a grand reception organised in his honour by the people of Kalabari ethnic nationality in Rivers State on Saturday warned that Nigeria will tremble when the South makes a declarative statement on the 2023 presidential election.
The media Aide to the governor, Kelvin Ebiri, in a statement, indicated that Governor Wike at a grand reception organised in his honour by the people of Kalabari ethnic nationality at the Abalama School field in Asari Toru Local Government Area, declared: “the day the South will speak, Nigeria will shake.
“We believe in the unity of this country, but nobody can threaten us. Nobody should threaten us. We believe in the unity of Nigeria and unity of Nigeria must continue.”
Governor Wike asserted that the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will not be given to any candidate who will not serve the interest of all Nigerians or will be restricted to the interest of the few wealthy people in the country.
Governor Wike was conferred a traditional title of Se-Ibidokibo of Kalabari land – signifying “He who does good things for Kalabari people”. The coronation was conducted by the Amayanabo of Abonnema, King Gboko Desreal Bob-manuel.
Governor Wike declared: “No amount of gang up can make PDP to give somebody who will want to run election for the interest of some big men, and not for all Nigerians.
“Anybody who wants to be candidate of PDP must be candidate for the interest of Nigerians.”
The governor decried that certain desperate politician are already manipulating the process for the PDP presidential ticket to be given to a candidate who will not serve the interest of the many, but the interest of just those of the wealthy few.
Governor Wike also berated the political actors from Rivers State holding appointments in the President Muhammadu Buhari administration over their perceived gross inability to influence federal government projects to Rivers State.
Governor Wike further clarified that the 2023 governorship election in Rivers State is open to all interested aspirants. He insisted that everybody is entitle to contest for the governor of the state. He, however, stated that “such person must show capacity for that office and be well disposed to protect the interest of the state.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp