Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


MRS Oil Nigeria Plc has debunked rumour circulating on social media that it was responsible for the importation and distribution of “substandard and contaminated” petrol in the country.
In a video circulating online, a petrol attendant, wearing an MRS uniform, was seen dispensing what appears to be adulterated petrol to a customer.
Recall that Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) had confirmed that petrol, with methanol quantities above Nigeria’s specification, was discovered in the supply chain.
The development caused long queues across Lagos and Abuja as many filling stations shut down services.
READ ALSO: Oil company confirms fire incident at offshore facility
Reacting to the video, MRS described the video as mischievous, false and untrue, adding that it gets petrol from NNPC which is the sole PMS importer in the country due to the current subsidy regime.
It said the NNPC, through Duke Oil, its trading arm, supplied a cargo of PMS purchased from Litasco, an international trader, and delivered it with motor tanker (MT) Nord Gainer.
MRS said the vessel was discharged in Apapa between January 24 and 30, 2022, and distributed to major marketers.
The company said it also received 5,000 mt of the product, adding that the fuel was immediately isolated when it was discovered to be contaminated.
READ ALSO: Commuters stranded as fuel scarcity bites Lagos harder
“As one of the beneficiaries, MRS received the product in its depot and distributed the product to only eight of its stations in Lagos. Following delivery into the tank, it was observed that the product appeared hazy and dark; Management immediately directed that further sale(s) should be stopped and the product isolated. Urgent steps were taken to analyze the product to determine the basis for its contamination.”
“The product analysis revealed that the PMS discharged by MT Nord Ganier had 20% methanol, which is an illegal substance in Nigeria.
“As a Company, we are aware that alcohol/ethanol is not permitted to be mixed in PMS specification. We immediately informed NNPC, NMDPRA and MOMAN and it was confirmed that other members had similar experiences.
“As at the time of this press release, ‘MRS’ had a total of 350,000 litres in the tank at the eight stations; we await approval from NNPC and NMDPRA for the return of the product.
“The eight stations have been isolated, but there are other tanks within the stations, which will receive uncontaminated products for sale as soon as possible.
“In view of the above, ‘MRS’ will continue to work with NNPC and NMDPRA, for the evacuation of the contaminated product to NNPC, who is the sole supplier of the product.”
The company said NNPC has taken necessary steps to reject further imports of this product from Litasco /Duke Oil and/or any other trader, supplying fuels that contain ethanol/methanol into Nigeria.
It assured citizens that all products currently dispensed/sold out of all MRS stations (with the exception of the recent product received from NNPC), are on-spec and are of the highest quality.

Share this on WhatsApp