Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Special Military Task Force, code named, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), in Plateau State, has inaugurated a 26-man committee to implement the recommendation peace report of the 36 man committee earlier inaugurated last year by the Taskforce.
The 36 man committee earlier inaugurated was to find a lasting solution to the lingering crisis between the troubled communities of Bassa, Jos North, Jos South and Riyom Local Government Council.
To implement the report, the Operation Safe Haven Commander, Maj. Gen. Ibrahim Ali, thought it wise to inaugurate another committee to do justice to the report.
However, the terms of reference given to the new committee was to come up with strategies, timelines to the commencement of the implementation of the recommendation of the 36 man committee, our correspondent said.
Consequently, speaking at the inauguration ceremony at the OPSH headquarters on Saturday in Jos, Gen. Ali said the 26 man committee were carefully selected to ensure effective and unbiased implementation.
According to him: “We all acknowledge that the incessant crises amongst the various ethnic groups in Bassa, Jos North and Jos South LGAs in Plateau State have continued to undermine peace and security in the areas over the years.
“The report of 36-man committee contains modalities that if thoroughly implemented would assist Operation Safe HAVEN, Plateau State Government and other security agencies in achieving lasting peace in Plateau.
“Implementation would require total dedication, commitment and sacrifice from all the parties and stakeholders to achieve the much desired peace.
“The 26 man implementation committee members were carefully and painstakingly selected based on their pedigree as sustainable peace builders, commitment, loyalty and service to humanity.
“The importance of the task of the committee cannot be overemphasize. It is a very herculean task in front of you with very high hopes and expectations from all and sundry. I therefore, urged you to be impartial, neutral, upright and devoid of compromise and sentiments in the discharge of this enormous responsibility bestowed on you”, Gen. Ali said.
However, the committee is expected to submit its implementation plan on March 31 2022.
Share this on WhatsApp