Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Garri is a household food that every Nigerian should be familiar with, if not for any reason but for the way it can be eaten in different ways and made into eba to be consumed with a wide range of soups, it is nutritious and easy to prepare, as such, it has health benefits you should know about, and to be specific, today’s article is based on the health benefits gotten from soaking garri.
Whoever gave life to the concept of soaking garri gave life to a whole lot of people who have turned to soaking garri at their lowest points, soaking garri which has in the past been looked at as a food for a hungry person is now been eaten by a wide range of people and the whole concept of the meal spiced up.
The addition of milk, sugar, and groundnut to soaking garri can sometimes be referred to as basic, but when eaten with fish, be it dried, smoked, or fried, is on a whole other level. Well, the health benefits of this food have been mostly neglected, and in the past I heard that garri gives no benefit to those who consume it as soaking garri, but then, I don’t believe there’s any food that doesn’t have effects of its consumers.

Have you tried soaking garri with cold water? I bet there’s a different level of satisfaction that is attached to it, the health benefits of soaking garri should not be thrown to the side, hence you can read them below.
1. Good Eyesight

As opposed to the popular rumour that soaking garri negatively affects your eyesight and gives you swollen eyes, garri benefits our eye health by offering us vitamin A and bakarotennya, how does this happen?
Well, bakarotennya helps to prevent blindness and vitamin A helps us with good eyesight sight, when you combine both you get good eyesight and improved eye health.
2. Weight loss

Soaking garri helps us lose weight because of its low calorie and high fibre content, this combination is perfect for weight loss as you’d remain full for longer periods after eating such foods, this will make you stay away from other foods as you are still full, but it will add little calorie to your body, ensuring you lose weight in the long run.
3. Helps to cure diarrhea

Just get it right by soaking garri with water and eating it if you’re having watery stool too frequently, garri has the ability to arrest such a situation and get you back on track.


Share this on WhatsApp