Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Recently, there was a viral news on a speculated meeting between the former Vice President of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; the Executive Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni and the Executive Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru who are members of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC.
The alleged meeting took place at the Discrete Lodge in Abuja. Although, the outcome of the meeting is yet to be made available to the public, there are speculation on the social media platforms that the meeting is not, likely, separable from the forthcoming 2023 general elections, in the country.
Although, some political opinion moulders and concerned citizens have been reading meaning to the meeting between the four Northern political giants, however there are about two possible forms with which the speculated meeting could be viewed.
One, it is very possible for the trio of the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; the Executive Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni and the Executive Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru to be luring the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to defect from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), ahead of the 2023 general elections.
Noticeably, it is important to recall that the presidential ticket of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is not sure for the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and, the fact remains that the influence of the Governors elected under the platform of PDP is considerably indomitable by any political force, including that of Atiku Abubakar, for now.

Hence, the trio of the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; the Executive Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni and the Executive Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru may see the growing influence of PDP Governors as opportunity to lure the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).

After all, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was one of the founding members of the ruling party and all he may need in promise could, possibly, be a free and fair ground to vie for the presidential ticket of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC).
Secondly, it is still very possible for the former Vice President of Nigeria, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to be consulting the trio of the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; the Executive Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni and the Executive Governor of Jigawa State, Mohammed Abubakar Badaru, purposely with the aim of seeking their supports for his election if he wins the presidential ticket of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).

This could be possible, considering the fact that there are argument among citizens of the country on whether the the presidential power should remain in the North or be shifted to the South.
Being a prominent politician, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar may attempt to convince them on reason he should be supported to retain the presidential power to the Northern part of the country.


Share this on WhatsApp