Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Reports from the ongoing Osun APC governorship primaries indicate that the governor of the state, Gboyega Oyetola is leading the candidate of ex-governor, Rauf Aregbesola, Mr Adeoti.
This is coming after Aregbesola openly declared war against the incumbent governor last weekend, while stating that he has gone against the party in the state.
The group, comprising of loyalists of the immediate past governor and current Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, had produced two aspirants: Alhaji Moshood Adeoti who was a former Secretary to the State Government, and Hobourable Lasun Yusuff, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. However, Adeoti was preferred by Aregbesola.
READ ALSO: Nobody is after your life, Oyetola replies Aregbesola
But speaking during the exercise at Boripe Ward 1, St. Peter’s Primary School, Olotin, Governor Gboyega Oyetola commended Party members for exemplifying the peaceful demeanour that Osun was known for.
He said contrary to media reports, Osun state has remained the most peaceful state in the country, saying that the insinuations of violence making the rounds were mere speculations.
There were speculations in the build-up to the State’s primary election of the All Progressive Congress, of a possible onslaught by the members of the splinter group within the Party called The Osun Progressives (TOP).
He however appealed to citizens across the State to maintain peace and decorum, adding that elections should not be a battle.
Meanwhile, the Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola has lost his Ward 8, Ifofin, Ilesha East to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola at the ongoing primary election of All Progressives Congress (APC).
READ ALSO: Osun: Aregbesola dares Tinubu, backs Adeoti as APC holds primary
Aregbesola was absent to vote at the ward during the exercise.
The leader of loyalists of Aregbesola at Ward 8, Ifofin, Ilesha East, Saheed Adegoke confirmed to newsmen the Minister was not around to vote.
“He told us that he had an assignment from the President,” he stated.
He said at the end of the exercise, the anointed aspirant of Aregbesola, Moshood Adeoti, garnered 146 votes while Governor Oyetola polled 309.


Share this on WhatsApp