Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAkwa Ibom APC stakeholders urge Akpanudoedehe to join 2023 guber race.
 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in Akwa Ibom, have urged Sen. John Akpanudordehe, the secretary of the party’s Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) to join the race for state 2023 governorship election
This is contained in a communique at the end of a meeting of prominent APC leaders on Thursday in Uyo.
The stakeholders said that with Akpanudoedehe as the APC candidate in 2023, the party was almost certain of winning the state governorship election.
They extolled Akpanudoedehe’s sound educational qualification and knowledge of the political environment, his enviable track record in public service and political party administration.
The stakeholders also noted Akpankudohede’s vast experience in business, local government administration and exposure to national politics as a federal minister.
They further said that Akpankudohede’s love for humanity and service to the people, relentless energy to mobilise the people, and his capacity to interact with the grassroots put him forward as one with the greatest potential that could win the election for APC in Akwa Ibom.
“After exhaustive deliberation, the motion was overwhelmingly passed with a notation for the resolution taken by a credible collection of Akwa Ibom APC stakeholders to be conveyed to the distinguished Senator,” they said.
The stakeholders said the meeting reviewed various issues of national interest and commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts at managing the country’s economy and the fight against corruption.
They added that the meeting passed a vote of confidence on Buhari for the successes recorded in securing the country from insurgency and banditry and reviving the economy.
“The meeting also commended the National Chairman, APC CECPC Gov. Mai Mala Buni, of Yobe for the manner he had piloted the party’s affairs and fulfilled the core mandate of its assignment which was to convene the National Convention now scheduled to hold on Feb. 26.
“The meeting commended and appreciated our son, Akpanudoedehe for his tenacity to hold forth as the national secretary of our great party; enduring the pressures on all sides to ensure the entrenchment of 34 out of the 36 APC State Executive Committees in the country,” they said.
Share this on WhatsApp