Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River state has advised Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo to support whatever decision the APC takes regarding the forthcoming 2023 presidential election.
The Cross Rivers state governor gave the advice in an interview published by BBC Pidgin on Friday, February 11.
It was gathers that the governor was reacting to a question on the speculations of Yemi Osinbajo presidency.
He said the vice president has a good heart and is a humble and cool-headed person. Ayade advised him to support the party anytime it decides on the presidential ticket.
Governor Ayade also said he won’t advise Osinbajo against running for president.
He noted that the vice president has worked for eight years with President Muhammadu Buhari who “to a large extent” will decide the APC’s presidential ticket.
Ayade said he will the support the vice president if President Buhari presents him as his preferred Successor.
Despite the mounting pressure on Osinbajo, the vice president has not declared interest in running for president in 2023.
Just recently, the Vice president denied reports that he plans to declare his intention to run for president ahead of the 2023 elections after the All Progressives Congress Convention slated for February 26, 2021.
There were reports on Monday, February 7, that Osinbajo would announce his presidential bid for 2023.
However, a senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, said the report is false and speculative.
He added that any information on the action of the Vice President would come directly from his office and not the press.
Laolu tweeted late Monday: “I’ve seen” news” that VP’ ll announce presidential bid after APC’s convention. Anyone reading the story’ ll know it’ s all false and speculative snippets.
“Any information on activities and actions of the VP will come directly from his office and not sponsored speculations in the press.
“Meanwhile a former national secretary of the Labour Party, Kayode Ajulo, says most governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are backing Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to become president in 2023.
In a Channels TV interview aired in Wednesday, February 9, Ajulo said Osinbajo has performed exceedingly well within the last seven years in office to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari .
According to him, nobody has been able to find fault in Osinbajo, reiterating that he should be the next president.
He also called on the APC to consider the vice president for the position.
Ajulo said Osinbajo is the only person seen as the best marketable candidate if the ruling party is serious about winning the 2023 presidential election,
His words: “We need to distinguish the office of the Vice President and the personality of Professor Yemi Osinbajo. As it is, his running for this election is non-negotiable.
“I can say that authoritatively and I think those in the presidency are listening. He has that fundamental right of the first refusal to that ticket, particularly being the vice president of the country.
“If he can be Vice President for so long, he should be the next President. I want to believe that the leadership of the party should believe that that is the position.
“Most of the governors in APC and PDP are even supporting the aspiration of the Vice President, this is so clear.”


Share this on WhatsApp