Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


It will be right to say that a president number one means of transportation is by air. As the head of government and highest diplomatic officer, the president makes more government sponsored international and diplomatic journeys than any other member of his cabinet or any executive personnel or civil servant in the country.
Furthermore, the President travels more outside his country than inside, except when an important occurrence happened in a state, or he is going on a states tour and during campaign of course. For President Buhari who has considerably travelled outside the country a lot, for either official or personal purposes ever since the beginning of his tenure in 2015, we can say this statement is very true. The president is the only government official given an official plane and unless the plane is faulty (which rarely is), it is this plane that the president uses on his domestic and international flights. The presidential jet of President Muhammadu Buhari is called Air force 1. Here are a few interesting things you should know about Airforce 1.

Boeing designed the jet

The assigned carrier of the president is designed by the largest aircraft company in the world. It is a Boeing 737NG BBJ (Boeing Business Jet). It was built on order in June 2005 and delivered to the Nigerian Air Force on 14th July 2005.
2. It has additional fuel tanks for extended intercontinental range
The plane will never experience low fuel warning while in midair
3. The Presidential jet can land in all countries
It is built to be compliant with all continental and country’s aerospace regulations. However, although the President has several escort planes in his presidential fleet, only the presidential plane is allowed to enter the airspace of another country.
4. Nigerian Air Force 1 have protection against cyber threats
5. NAF 1 have several securities and defense measures that are hidden from the public
6. The presidential jet remains in a country as long as the president is still in that country
That was why when President Buhari was in London for some days, NAF1 was parked in an airport in London.
7. NAF1 have been used on more than 50 international travels by President Buhari


Share this on WhatsApp