Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
A group in Delta North, the Anioma Social Justice Advocates (ASOJA), has declared support for Deputy Governor Kingsley Burutu Otuaro in the race for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections. The Anioma Social Justice Advocates (ASOJA) identified as a group in the PDP, at a media conference in Asaba on Tuesday, affirmed the support of the members for the deputy governor in the race for the successor of Governor Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State.
The National President of the Anioma Social Justice Advocates (ASOJA), Engr. Chris Ogeah, listed the reasons the group decided to support the deputy governor to continue the good works of Governor Okowa in the State.
Ogeah stated that Deputy Governor Otuaro has been a loyal supporter of the Okowa administration, saying that he is well placed to step into the shoes of his boss to drive a stronger Delta mantra to a higher pedestrian. Ogeah highlighted leadership qualities of Otuaro which include loyalty, commitment, competence, experience, peaceful and focus.
Ogeah, therefore, declared:  ‘we the executive members of ASOJA, met today to look at the political development in our state, particularly, with regards to who succeed Governor Okowa in 2023. We examined the antecedents of all the governorship aspirants jostling to fly the PDP, our party’s flag in the 2023 governorship election and we came to the conclusion that Deputy Governor Kingsley Burutu Otuaro is best fitted to continue the marvelous work being done by the Okowa’s administration in Delta State.
“As you are well aware, the deputy governor has been adjudged the most loyal deputy governor in Nigeria by our royal fathers and it takes a good servant to be a good leader. His antecedents and commitments to good governance has been tested and proven.
“As a man with the fear of God and expert in conflict resolution/peace building, Oturao’s deposition to peace will consolidate the existing peace we currently enjoy in the state. He is a man with few words and well focus.
“As it is today, Deltans and all residents of Delta State are very happy with what Okowa is doing in our state, his performance outpace expectations of vast majority of Deltans.
“As you may have heard, in a rare gesture of acknowledgement, former Governor James Onanefe Ibori, in a speech during the recent Delta PDP mega rally, showered praises and commendations on  Governor Okowa for his spectacular performance. You will agree with me that such commendation is uncommon in Nigerian polity. It all goes to show that Delta state under Okowa/Otuaro’s administration is strong.
“I believe that Governor Okowa would have won another term with landslide if not for constitutional limit of two terms for governors. But as the saying goes, you do not change a performing team. Okowa/Otuaro has performed very well and it is only good for Otuaro to step in and continue the good work.”
Ogeah maintained: “we have also resolved to activate our affiliate groups in all the 9 LGAs in Delta North and we plan to use various media outlets to reach out to our party’s delegates to encourage them to vote Otuaro during the party’s guber primary.
“We are aware of the agitations from Delta Central for the governorship seat to be zone to the district, this is a usual demand, having participated in the previous PDP governorship primaries since 1998, the district is not expected to be dash the 2023 governorship position on a platter of gold, which is invariably what they are asking for. This is antidemocratic, that is not how democracy works. Delta North was not dashed the governorship seat in 2015; We fought hard to get it.
“Our motto is equity and justice and we stand for equity, fairness and Justice, that is another reason we are supporting KBO, because it is only fair to allow the Ijaws to taste the governorship seat as a major stakeholder in Delta PDP family. At most, let all the aspirants sweat it out at the party’s primary as it has been done before.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp