Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps ( NSCDC) in Edo, on Saturday clamped down on fuel stations hoarding fuel and those selling above approved pump price of N165.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the exercise took the corps round fuel stations on Airport road, Akpakpava road, Sapele road and Ugbo road all within the state capital.
NAN also reports that fuel stations selling above N165 pump price were made to revert to not more than the N165 as majority of the fuel stations were observed to be selling at between N205 and N220 per litre.
Mr Aniekan Udoeyop, the state Commandant of the corps, told newsmen during the exercise that the clampdown had become imperative as the actions of the fuel stations and their owners were creating artificial scarcity in the state.
Udoeyop lamented that in spite of the his earlier warning to the fuel station owners and operators, some of them were not only hoarding product, but also selling above the N165 pump price.
“For crying out loud, any fuel station which is not ready to sell at normal price should close down.
“I had on Feb. 7, gone round fuel stations across the state and advised them on the need to maintain the status quo in pump price per litre, as well as desist from hoarding product to forestall artificial scarcity.
“But here we are today, seeing some stations selling for as much as N220 per litre.
“This is bad, and the height of wickedness for these fuel station owners and operators to capitalise on a little mistake from the government and punish their fellow human beings.
“For those stations with fuel, but hoarding it, we will ensure they remain closed, so we are coming back to seal them up,” he said.
Udoeyop disclosed that all the persons arrested during the clampdown would face the law, while stations sealed won’t be re-opened until they normalise their metre.
NAN reports that some of the stations visited include Mende Gas, Hifly petrol, Elilove oil and Raptor oil, DVD oil and VOE oil where fuel were observed to be sold at between N205 and N220 per litre.
NAN also reports that 12 fuel attendant/managers were arrested during the exercise.
Share this on WhatsApp