Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Ahead of the March 26 National Convention of the ruling party in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari was reported to have made a resolve on who will become the next National Chairman of the party.
According a common publications by the media platforms, including Daily Post, President Muhammadu Buhari was said to have nominated the former Governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, to become the next National Chairman of the party.
Although, news that have been trending, recently, suggested that some of the APC governors have initially nominated a former governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura; some nominated a former minister for Mines and Steel Development, Abubakar Bawa Bwari; some wanted the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume and others rooted for Senator Mohammed Sani Musa but the choice of President Muhammadu Buhari is Abdullahi Adamu and it prevail, as no Governor made objection to the course.
Considerably, many opinion moulders and political have been checking the chances of the former Lagos State Governor and the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the course of picking the presidential ticket of the party.
ALSO READ: 2023 zoning and aspirants’ pairing permutations (3)
Although, some opinion moulders have already suggested that the choice of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the next National Chairman of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), by President Muhammadu Buhari could be considered as a hit on the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. However, if one critically look at how the political activities of APC is being unveiled, it may not be difficult to submit to the fact that the choice of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the next National Chairman of APC may have, sincerely, boosted the chances of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to pick the presidential ticket of APC. How do I mean?
Critically, looking at the political formation in APC, the party seems to be swapping how the authority of the party was formulated, ahead of 2015 poll.
In 2015, the political bloc of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu nominated Comrade Adams Oshiomole as the National Chairman of APC, while the political bloc of Muhammadu Buhari nominated the presidential candidate of APC.
All things being equal, as President Muhammadu Buhari has nominated Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the next National Chairman of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will, considerably, be given ultimate right to pick the presidential ticket of the party, or alternatively, give it to whomever he prefers.


Share this on WhatsApp