Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Nigeria Police on Saturday revealed the discovery of fresh human parts hidden in the room of a couple in Ogun State. The Ogun State Police Command, accordingly, arrested the husband and wife whose home the police found the hidden fresh human parts.
The Police Public Relations Officer of the Gun State Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a statement in Abeokuta on Saturday, identified the couple as Kehinde Oladimeji – aged 43 years – and his wife, Adejumoke Raji, -aged 35 years – residing at 72, MKO Abiola Way, Leme, Abeokuta. The PPRO disclosed that the husband and wife were arrested after receiving intelligence report at Kemta Divisional Headquarters from the leader of the community, Moshood Ogunwolu.
The police statement read in part: “The community leader reported that one Pastor Adisa Olarewaju, who is a co-tenant with the suspects informed him of offensive odours coming out from the room of the suspects.
“Upon the complaint, the Divisional Police Officer, Kemta Division, Chief Superintendent of Police Adeniyi Adekunle quickly led his detectives to the scene where the search was conducted.
“On searching the room, a plastic bowl containing fresh different human parts were discovered in the room, and the couple, promptly arrested.”
The PPRO indicated that on interrogation, the suspects confessed that they are herbalists and that the human parts comprised of hands, breasts, and other parts, which were given to them by one Michael who they said resides in Adatan area of Abeokuta.
The PPRO declared that all efforts to locate the said Michael proved abortive as the suspects could not locate his house.
The police noted that butchered body of an unknown person was found in a swamp at Leme area of Abeokuta about a week ago. They could not, however, confirm if the dumped person was the source of the human parts found in the residence of the arrested couple.
The PPRO disclosed that the State Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole has, since ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation.
The CP assured that anyone who is directly or indirectly involved in the crime would be brought to book to serve as a deterrent to others.
Share this on WhatsApp