Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Air Peace, Overland, Azman, Dana, Max Air and Arik Airlines had over 55% of their flights delayed in Nigeria in 2021, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority’s Executive Summary has revealed.
Overland, Azman, Dana Airlines led the pack with 84%, 64%, and 64% of their flights delayed in the year under review.
According to the document, 10 domestic airlines operated 74,537 flights conveying 12,050,264 passengers in the year 2021.
Overland leading with 84% of its flights delayed. Azman and Dana Air had 64% of their flights delayed. United Airlines had 63% percent of the flights operated in the year under review delayed. Max Air also delayed 61% of its flights, Arik Air delayed 57% of its flights.
READ ALSO: Dana, Ibom Air enter first of its kind domestic Airlines full code share agreement
Air Peace, which operates the highest number of flights per day, had 55% percent of its flights last year delayed. Aero Contractors delayed 54% of its flights while Green Africa had 50% of its flights delayed. Ibom Air on its part had the least percentage of flight delays with just 26% of its flights delayed.
Out of the 74, 537 flights, 41,328 of the flights representing 55% were delayed while 542 flights were cancelled. This means that virtually all domestic airlines delayed their flights, which most times do not come with compensations, and this is gradually becoming a norm in the aviation industry.
This came amidst rising complaints from passengers over flight delays which have worsened in recent times, despite several warnings and measures introduced by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) and the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika.
Banji Ajayeoba, an Aviation Consultant, explained that before now, sanctions such as fines and revocation of operating licences were imposed on defaulters, depending on what the regulations says in NCAA Act.
Sam Adurogboye, General Manager, Public Affairs, NCAA, explained that the agency had warned all airlines to always adhere to the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (NCARs 2015) and Passengers Bill of Rights in their dealings.
Share this on WhatsApp