Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Exercise can have significant health benefits if you have a chronic disease, such as heart disease, diabetes, asthma, or back or joint pain. However, before beginning an exercise routine, consult with your doctor. He or she may be able to advise you on which exercises are safe and what precautions you should take while exercising.


How does exercise help with a chronic condition?
Regular exercise can help you manage symptoms and improve your health if you have a chronic condition.
Aerobic exercise can help you lose weight while also improving your heart health and endurance. High-intensity interval training is generally safe and effective for the majority of people, and it can be completed in less time. High-intensity interval training involves alternating between high-intensity exercise and low-intensity exercise for short periods. Even higher-intensity activities like walking count.
Strength training can improve muscle strength and endurance, make daily activities easier, slow disease-related declines in muscle strength, and provide joint stability.
Flexibility exercises may help you maintain an optimal range of motion in your joints so that they can function properly, while stability exercises may help reduce your risk of falling.
Exercise can help cure the following diseases:
1. Heart disease
Exercise regularly can help improve your heart health. Interval training is well tolerated in people with heart disease, according to recent research, and it can produce significant benefits.
Exercise can reduce the risk of dying from heart disease as well as the progression of heart disease in people who have high blood pressure.
2. Diabetes
Regular exercise can help insulin lower your blood sugar levels more effectively. Physical activity can also help you lose weight and increase your energy. Exercise can reduce your risk of dying from heart disease if you have type 2 diabetes.
3. Asthma
Exercise can frequently help control the frequency and severity of asthma attacks.
4. Backache
Regular low-impact aerobic activities can improve muscle function and increase back strength and endurance. By strengthening the muscles around your spine, abdominal and back muscle exercises (core-strengthening exercises) may help reduce symptoms.
5. Arthritis
Exercise can help with pain relief, muscle strength maintenance in affected joints, and joint stiffness. It can also help people with arthritis improve their physical function and quality of life.
6. Cancer
People who have had cancer can benefit from exercise in terms of both their quality of life and their fitness. Exercise can also reduce the likelihood of dying from breast, colorectal, or prostate cancer.
7. Dementia
Exercise can improve cognition in people with dementia, and people who engage in physical activity regularly are less likely to develop dementia or cognitive impairment.


Share this on WhatsApp