Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


It’s with no doubt that online banking helps you so conveniently make bill payments and transfers, it may interest you to know that this comes with it’s own share of risks.
Below are things you should never do if you use online banking:
1. You should not use public Wi-Fi connection to do online banking. The simple reason for this is that it’s insecure and can be easily used by hackers to plant infected software on your device to steal your banking details.
2. Do not charge your mobile phones at public charging stations in order to avoid becoming a victim of ‘juice jacking’ (this is a cyber crime that uses USB cable to steal data). It is always advisable to use your own charging cable.
3. You should not search for a bank’s customer care or other important numbers on Google. Instead, you should always go to the bank’s official website to get informations that are related to emails and phone numbers for queries and grievances.
4. Do not install any App on your smartphone from anywhere other than Google Play Store or Apple App Store. This is because downloading apps from an unofficial source can risk both your smartphone and data available on it.
5. The reason why you should not ignore Android security update on your smartphone is because the software update will help to tackle bugs and other issues on your device. They can also help to minimise the Cyber risk.
6. Make sure you don’t click on any bank or payment related link that has been sent to you in form of SMS or mails, unless you are very sure.
Just keep an eye on such messages and always check the URL before clicking.
7. It is not a good idea to disclose any banking or KYC-related information on any social media platform while seeking remedy for a grievance.
8. When it comes to online banking, you should not keep easy passwords. This is simply because a weak password can easily be cracked and that’ll make you more vulnerable. Learn to always create a strong password as it reduces the chances of cyber fraud.
9. You should always remember to change your online banking password on a frequent basis. Changing it at least every 3 to 4 months will ensure your safety and security; preventing cyber criminals from getting access to your informations.
10. You should not share any bank related information with anyone on the phone; in most cases they pose as bank representatives and ask for your bank details. You should always remember that the bank will never ask for your personal information.
11. Lastly, you shouldn’t give unnecessary permissions to apps on your smartphones. Make sure you always read carefully before giving permission to any app. This is because allowing apps access to your data exposes your sensitive information to hackers.


Share this on WhatsApp