Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

 
Most of the medications we take pass through the kidneys because they get filtered by them. But if you take certain medications carelessly i.e. without the doctor’s prescription or if you take uncertified drugs, they may end up causing harm to your kidneys and even in worst case scenario damaging the kidneys.
So, in this article, we are going to have a look at some common medications that can damage the kidneys if abused. If you are the type of person who often prescribes drugs for yourself, this article would serve as an enlightenment to you on the need to stop doing so. Just sit tight and enjoy this article while learning something new.
What Are These Medications That Can Hurt The Kidneys If Abused?
1. Pain Relief Drugs/Medications; if you take large amounts of pain relief drugs such as naproxen, aspirin and ibuprofen, you may end up damaging your kidneys. Reason being that none of the aforementioned drugs should be taken daily or even regularly without a doctor’s approval or go ahead. No matter the pain you are feeling, try as much as possible to get a go-ahead from a doctor or professional medical personnel before taking these medications.
2. Certain Antibiotics Can also hurt the kidneys if abused. Most antibiotics can be dangerous if not taken carefully or correctly. People suffering from certain kidney related ailments should be careful with the way they take antibiotics than people with very healthy kidneys. This is because the more antibiotics you take, the more load you place on your kidneys and as such, raising your risk of hurting them.
3. Illegal street drugs can also hurt or worse still damage the kidneys. Such drugs are; heroin, Cocaine, amphetamines can cause kidney damage when taken carelessly. Beyond the kidneys, taking these drugs would only cause more havoc for you. Some of these illegal drugs trigger, heart Failure, high blood pressure and even untimely death, so you should stay away from such drugs for your own good.


Share this on WhatsApp