Share this on WhatsAppSpread the lovePDP constitutes committee for reconciliation for july 16th, Gubernatorial elections.
The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has appointed Elder Shuaibu Oyedokun and former Governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola to Co-Chair a committee to resolve all issues ahead of the party’s July 16 governorship election in the state.
The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr Debo Ologunagba, told journalists at the end of a joint meeting of its National Working Committee (NWC) and other National Stakeholders of the party.
Ologunagba said that the committee was given one week to report back but “if the Osun State people come back and say we are into consensus, so be it”.
He said that “the NWC, members of the National Assembly and other stakeholders agreed that in line with the position of the party to carry every organ along, the meeting decided to seek an Osun State solution.
“We can not begin to resolve issues at National without involving stakeholders and local leaders who are more abreast with issues concerning Osun State PDP.
“The meeting decides that they will go and meet on all issues. A committee of 10 under the joint leadership of Elder Shuaibu Oyedokun and former Osun State Governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola to convey the meeting and bring all members of the party in the state, including the 6 aspirants together”.
“The idea of the committee that the PDP has set up is to ensure that there is harmony in the party. This party have the capacity to discuss and resolve amicably”.
On consensus candidate, he said that the PDP would not impose any candidate but always respect the will of the people.
“The party will always respect the decision of the local people. We don’t impose decision here. If the Osun State people come back and say we are into consensus, so be it.
“But we know there is a level playing field for everybody. In any event, it was emphasised that If we need to go into the primary, it will be a free, fair and credible primary election just like we had in Ekiti State, he added.
Share this on WhatsApp