Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The contest within the opposition party is becoming far more intense than how it was four years ago. The struggle is real and aspirants are leaving nothing to chance. Each of them wants to do every needful ahead of the primary election. And with that they are competing.
The presence of Mr. Atiku Abubakar in the race would add glamour and colour to it. He said that he would declare his ambition at the appropriate time. He was in Niger State on 1 February and he met key leaders.
Prior to his trip to the north-central state, Mr. Raymond Dokpesi has taken the forefront to canvas for the former vice president. He has urged the Igbo populace to support the former number two citizen of the country.
There was an initial report that Atiku Abubakar had picked Nyesom Wike as his running mate. But the Rivers State governor has debunked the claim. It is still part of the intrigues in the rather hot contest for the ticket.
Mr. Bukola Saraki doesn’t take anything for granted. Since he informed his party members and Nigerians that he has interests in the ticket, he has been seriously consulting and working.
Saraki, an aspirant in 2018, went to consult Chief Edwin Clark, one of the living elder statesmen in the country. The elderly man talked and told Saraki that he (Clark) would back him on one condition. Failure of southern Nigeria to present one person will make Clark back Saraki.
In the Igbo land, the politicians are trooping out. Mr. Anyim Pius Anyim didn’t waste time to let the whole country know about his dream. He is among the earliest to declare for presidency. He himself is determined, but it’s not clear how long his determination would last.
Slowly, Peter Obi, the former vice presidential candidate of the PDP. He firstly gave the clue when his attention was drawn to the race. He is now specific. He said two things will make him contest. He would participate if the PDP throws the race open or it’s zoned to southern region.
From another angle, Bala Mohammed, Bauchi State governor, has dragged former vice president. He urged the Adamawa born politician to pave the way for a young politician. He talked about strength and age of Atiku Abubakar.


Share this on WhatsApp