Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





 
Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, who  represented Rivers South-East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, has explained why he is consulting widely before deciding to contest the governorship election Rivers State in the 2023 general elections.
Abe, at the end of a consultative meeting with the people, elders and members of the Bera Council of Chiefs, at his hometown, Bera in Gokana Local Government Area, Rivers State, explained that he embarked on the consultation to get the input of all critical stakeholders in order to avoid any avoidable mistakes, noting that the consultation will continue until he finds the enthusiasm in the people to overcome their lethargy.
According to Abe: “I have come here today, in continuation of my consultations with critical stakeholders as to the way forward for our political journey.
“I have consulted with the Bera Community and members of the Council of Chiefs and they have encouraged me to go forward without fear and contest for the governorship seat of Rivers State in the forthcoming general elections in 2023.
“The consultation process will continue until we get input from all critical stakeholders and to be convinced that the people understand the message on how things could be done differently to the benefit of all citizens. At the appropriate time, after due consultation, we shall make the outcome of the processes known.
“I want to thank the community for inviting me and also thank you all for your encouraging words and support. Most importantly, I thank you for the peace you have maintained in this community.”
The paramount ruler of Bera, His Royal Highness, Mene Magnus Adumene Deekor, Menebon Bera,  Gberekpina XIII, said that Bera as a community has resolved to call on their son, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, to present himself for the position of governor of Rivers State.
According to the traditional ruler, the community has a sole candidate irrespective of party, urging the Senator to declare and contest as the community will give him maximum support.
Abe has been having rough political encounter with the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, over the politics of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State.






Share this on WhatsApp