Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love2023: Southern Kaduna senatorial aspirant promises purposeful representation.
 
Mr Zachariah Suleiman, an aspirant for the Southern Kaduna Senatorial District seat on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has promised to provide purposeful representation if elected into the National Assembly.
Suleiman made the pledge on Sunday while speaking with newsmen in Zonkwa, headquarters of Zango Kataf Local Government Area (LGA) of Kaduna State.
According to him, he is in the race to do things differently as well as provide positive, all inclusive representation, which, he said, had been lacking in the senatorial district.
He maintained that Southern Kaduna is blessed with both human and material resources but needed sound and visionary leadership to fully maximize its potentials.
He said educational development, economic empowerment, infrastructural development and peace and justice will be his main focus if given the mandate.
“If elected, my cardinal programmes will be educational development, economic empowerment, infrastructural development and peace and justice.
“When we implement these programmes, we shall have a secure, stronger, united, peaceful and above all a prosperous Southern Kaduna.
“I intend to sponsor bills to improve the educational fortunes of our people and also lobby my colleagues to get infrastructural projects executed here.
“I wills also build the capacity of the youths and inspire them. This place is blessed with abundant talents. All that is needed is someone that will inspire and motivate them.
“The reality of today is that government cannot give everyone jobs, so we have to open the minds of our young ones in helping them to create wealth.
“Because of my passion for wealth creation and investment, I have written a book on investment which can help our youths succeed,” he stated
The senatorial hopeful also pledged to bring his wealth of experience in the public service to bear in the political arena.
“I have worked with the Federal Government for over 30 years and I know what it takes to plan and implement. I am a corporate planner.
“I left the NNPC with two portfolios: manager, efficiency, and manager quality management system, and have worked with different people in society to get things done.
“I want to bring this experience in public service to bear in improving the lot of my people because they deserve it,” he added.
On his chances of clinching the party’s ticket, the senatorial aspirant said he is confident of emerging victorious because his ideas are different, progressive and resonate with the common man.
Suleiman is a 60-year-old retired public servant with over 30 years experience working with the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
Share this on WhatsApp