Atiku Abubakar
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Former Vice President, Abubakar Atiku has drawn reactions among many political watchers and Nigerians over his recent statement that he would always clinch the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) ticket.
This comment has continued to generate discussion on many platforms, with the governor of River state, Nyesom Wike, among those who have aired their views on it.
However, this article focuses on why Atiku’s statement is not good in the interest of the party.
1. IT GIVES THE IMPRESSION THAT PDP IS NOT DEMOCRATIC
With the forthcoming general election in 2023, it is not out of place that many party members of a political parties would be declaring their interest to contest for president, and it is expected that all aspirants be accommodated and subjected to the primary election within their parties with a level playing field given to all, before the flagbearer of the party would emerge.
ALSO READ: Why Wike tackles Atiku after he boasts he will always win PDP’s presidential ticket
Here in the case of Atiku, he has already disclosed he would clinch the party’s presidential ticket without the conduct of the primary election within the party, a statement which gives an impression of the lack of transparency in the democratic structure that should be embedded in the party.
2. IT GIVES THE PARTY AWAY AS PRACTICING CASH AND CARRY POLITICS
The statement by Atiku can also be seen from the angle of banking on the former vice president’s financial standing, that it would play a decisive role in his very likely ” buying” his way to getting the ticket, thereby leaving other aspirants who may not have such standing out in the cold, even when they are more credible.
3. ATIKU SHOWED DISRESPECT FOR THE PARTY AND ALSO FOR DEMOCRATIC PROCESS
Atiku clearly showed a lack of respect to his party (PDP) by his statement without a primary election of clinching the party’s presidential ticket.
It also does not speak well of the party on the practice of genuine democracy before the electorates.
ALSO READ: 2023: 2 factors that may cause PDP to lose Southeast for the first time in 24 years
4. IT COULD CAUSE DISHARMONY AMONG PARTY MEMBERS
Atiku’s statement is capable of causing division among party members, who are supposed to see all aspirants on the platform of their party as equal and freely vote for the candidate of their choice at the primary election for the overall interest of the party.
5. IT COULD MAKE THE PARTY LOSE THE ELECTION
Most likely party members when dissatisfied with certain issues within a party, could resort to taking counter productive actions that could hamper the interest of the party.
Atiku’s statement here could be a dividing issue, with some party members expressing displeasure over his public statement and then they are highly likely prompted to engage in inter party activities or decamping to another political party at a crucial time, actions that possibly can truncate the chances of the party winning the election.


Share this on WhatsApp