Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFG to sanction oil marketers, others who contravene Weights and Measures Act.
 
The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Niyi Adebayo, says the Federal Government will, henceforth, sanction depot owners and oil marketers who contravene the provisions of the Weights and Measures Act 2004.
The National Daily reports that Adebayo issued the warning during a meeting with the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) and the Petroleum Product Depot Owners Association (PPDOA) on Wednesday in Lagos.
Adebayo, represented by Mr Hassan Ejibunu, a Director in the Department of Weights and Measures, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, said that the department was very critical to the operations of the oil and gas sector.
He said that it was the department’s responsibility to ensure that the instruments used for trade, oil and non-oil, are fit for use for trade transactions.
According to him, this is with the ultimate aim of preventing the short changing of both the sellers and the buyers, by ensuring transparency, equity and fairness.
Adebayo said that was why the department carries out the verification and certification of the equipment used in dispensing oil at the terminals and the different sales’ outlets of petroleum products.
He advised the marketers and depot owners to cooperate with the inspectors from the ministry whenever they visit their business premises to carry out their statutory duties, which is for the common good of all.
Adebayo said: “It will be necessary for me to urge all to ensure that all your weighing and measuring equipment are in conformity with the provisions of the Weights and Measures Act at all times.
“You are also to ensure prompt payment of the statutory fees after the verification of the equipment to ascertain they are good and fit for use for trade.
“I will like to, at this juncture, re-emphasise the ministry’s position of not condoning acts of indiscipline on the part of its officials and any official found wanting will be disciplined in line with the extant rules and regulations of government.
“Similarly, any organisation that contravenes the Provisions of the Weights and Measures Act will be sanctioned accordingly.”
He commended MOMAN and PPDOA for their giant strides in ensuring the growth of the oil and gas business in the country with their huge investments in the sector.
Adebayo added that their sustained collaboration with the ministry would help move the sector forward in the overall interest of the nation.
On his part, Mr Olumide Adeosun, the Chairman of MOMAN, represented by Mr Kingsley Ojimba, the Technical Officer of MOMAN, said that the association was committed to a viable petroleum industry.
He said that MOMAN would work with the Weights and Measures Department to make the ease of doing business better in Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp