Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


APC national leader Bola Ahmed Tinubu may not be paying attention to some issues in the Lagos State politics. Current events around the 2023 presidency may have taken his attention far away.
Mr. Tinubu jetted out of the country after a round of consultations that spanned three weeks. And while he is still away in London, the APC seems crumbling in Lagos State.
He may confidence that all is well with the APC in Lagos and that the opposition party may not come near the Government House at Ikeja. Yet the APC house is on the verge of falling.
Mr. Bukola Saraki led some other politicians to receive an aggrieved leader of the APC in Lagos. Mr. Olajide, who is also known as Jandor, defected from the APC to the People’s Democratic Party.
Saraki welcomed him and that was not the only case. Former governors and other top echelons of the PDP stormed Lagos State purposely because of the young politician. This doesn’t appear to bother Tinubu.
And if it bothered him, he didn’t appear to feel it. And that could be detrimental. Mr. Olajide Adediran seems to have started a movement against the national leader of the APC. And that should be an issue to worry or upset Tinubu.
Mr. Adediran has got attention of even incumbent PDP governors including Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Nyesom Wike (Rivers). And they may give him maximum support.
All of a sudden, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode broke silence and began to talk. He would be the first Lagos State governor to spend a single term of four years since 1999. He has developed a kind of courage to face his fear.
The Lagos State APC denied him opportunity to run for second term. And in his stead, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was chosen. Sanwo-Olu was also elected as the state governor. The same Sanwo-Olu can’t talk about his own future.
The APC wouldn’t have warned the PDP against offering its (PDP’s) ticket to Sanwo-Olu if there were no cases or issues. The events in Lagos State politics are more than meets the eyes. And Tinubu doesn’t pay attention to it.
While Bola Tinubu is working on his presiential bid, the People’s Democratic Party may sneak in and take over the state. And the political hegemony Tinubu has built over the years may crumble flatly.


Share this on WhatsApp