Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The contest for the 2023 presidential election of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is considerably taking shapes, as the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party in the country, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), pay more attention to who may become the standard bearer of each political party, respectively.
Most importantly, the 2023 general elections is being looked at, by many citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as an opportunity for them to make a change to the the ways we practice our politic, in the country.
Arguable though, one of the major sensitive aspect of life that Nigerians politics has, unfortunately, affected is the religious relationships between politicians and citizens.
ALSO READ: 2 APC leaders who may find it difficult to dump the party for PDP
Many oftentimes, some politicians would plant propaganda within the electorates, all with the aim of, regrettably, misleading the public masses from endorsing administrative competence above religious combination of the aspirants.
However, the projected pairing of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu with the Executive Governor of Borno State, Babagana Zulum, may reset the political perspective of many citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, regarding religion.

Although, both Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Babagana Zulum are both Muslims,but their administrative competence may work in their favor.
Taking a look at how the former Executive Governor of Lagos State and a National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has transformed Lagos State from swamp to cities, it would be very difficult for any citizen to insist that he does not want Nigeria to be redefined as Lagos State has done, over the years.
ALSO READ: 2 APC presidential aspirants Atiku may not defeat in 2023
Besides, the ways Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has been supporting his predecessors to ensure that Lagos State, progressively, become better; no one would stop such good gesture from being replicated, at the national level.
Also, the great performance of Babagana Zulum over the past few years in Borno State, could hardly be opposed, if the man is presented as running mate to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, ahead of the 2023 general elections.

Sincerely, although, they are of the same religion fate, but no one can fault their administrative competence.
Hence, if the two Muslim politicians are picked as APC presidential candidate of the party, they would win and don’t be surprised that sooner, combination of competent Christian candidates who will join hands to embrace polititic of competence, rather than religious politics.


Share this on WhatsApp