Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The Endorsement of the former Governor of Nassarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress APC, in the forthcoming National Convention Convention of the Party, may slim the Chances of the National Leader of the Party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to clinch the Presidential ticket of the Party.
It was reported that President Muhammadu Buhari, and APC Governors have settled for Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the National Chairman of the Party, through consensus in the forthcoming National Convention.

Though, it was gathered that some Governors, under the Platform of the Party, do not support the adoption of Adamu, as Chairman of the Party, but they do not have choice due to the directives of the President.
However, the endorsement of Senator Adamu as National Chairman of APC, may slim the Chances of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to clinch the Presidential ticket of the Party in 2023.

It should be recalled that Tinubu has been supporting the immediate former Governor of Nassarawa State, Tanko Al-makura, to become the National Chairman of the Party. It was gathered that Some APC Governors, working against Tinubu’s Candidate As National Chairman of the Party, in the forthcoming National Convention.
This means that If Senator Adamu could emerge as National Chairman of the Party through Consensus, Tinubu may find it difficult to become the Presidential Candidate of the Party.




Adamu’s Emergence as Chairman of APC, may not help Tinubu to clinch the Presidential ticket of the Party, because it is obvious that Tinubu is supporting Tanko Al-makura against Adamu.
It should be recalled that the APC Governors, who are not in support of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Presidential Ambition, are in support of Adamu as Chairman of the Party, and Adamu must obey them, if he becomes the Chairman of the Party.
It should be recalled that some APC Governors are nursing Presidential Ambition in 2023, under the Platform of the Party. The Governors are Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State and the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello.
Though, Governor Yahaya Bello may not be favoured, with the zoning system of the Party but the fact is, Governors from the South might be favoured to clinch the Presidential ticket of the Party, with the support of Adamu, if he becomes the National Chairman of the Party.
This is just an opinion, anyone having contrary Opinions should criticize the write up constructively without insults. Kindly Like, Share and comment reasonably


Share this on WhatsApp