Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveTom Brady, NFL Legend retires.
NFL legend, Tom Brady has announced retirement from football after 22 seasons, and seven Super Bowl titles
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback announced his decision across his social media accounts on Tuesday.
‘I have always believed the sport of football is an ”all-in” proposition – if a 100% competitive commitment isn’t there, you won’t succeed, and success is what I love so much about our game,’ Brady wrote.
‘There is a physical, mental, and emotional challenge EVERY single day that has allowed me to maximize my highest potential. And I have tried my very best these past 22 years. There are no shortcuts to success on the field or in life.

‘This is difficult for me to write, but here it goes: I am not going to make that competitive commitment anymore. I have loved my NFL career, and now it is time to focus my time and energy on other things that require my attention.’
Brady thanked his supermodel wife Gisele Bundchen and his children, saying they are his ‘inspiration’ and ‘greatest achievement.’
The announcement marks the end to an extraordinary career across which he won more Super Bowls (seven) than anyone team in NFL history, as well as being a three-time NFL MVP, five-time Super Bowl MVP, a 15-time Pro Bowler, two-time NFL Offensive Player of the Year and a member of the past two All-Decade teams and the NFL’s 100th Anniversary All-Time Team.

Following Brady’s announcement, the Patriots tweeted: “It was quite the ride. Thank you and congratulations, Tom Brady.”
The Buccaneers said: “Memories to last a lifetime. Thank you.”
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said Brady would be remembered: “as one of the greatest to ever play in the NFL”.
He added: “An incredible competitor and leader, his stellar career is remarkable for its longevity but also the sustained excellence he displayed year after year.

“Tom made everyone around him better and always seemed to rise to the occasion in the biggest moments.”

New England Patriots chairman and CEO Robert Kraft said: “Words cannot describe the feelings I have for Tom Brady, nor adequately express the gratitude my family, the New England Patriots and our fans have for Tom for all he did during his career.

“A generation of football fans have grown up knowing only an NFL in which Tom Brady dominated.”

Two-time Super Bowl winner Peyton Manning paid tribute to his former rival, saying: “Congratulations to my friend Tom on an unbelievable football career.

“To do it as long as he did, at the highest of levels, is absolutely incredible. It was an honour and a privilege to compete against him on the field, and I truly appreciate his friendship off the field.

“I have always admired and respected his competitiveness, his dedication, his discipline, and his commitment to being the best. I wish him the best in his next chapter. Congratulations again, pal!”
Share this on WhatsApp