Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by Governor Mala Buni of Yobe State is seeking amendments to the party’s constitution two week to the national convention scheduled for February 26.
The National Secretary of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), John Akpanudodehe, in a statement on Friday, declared: “In accordance with Article 30 (iii) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Constitution, the Governor Mai Mala Buni-chaired Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) has served a notice of proposed amendments to the Party’s Constitution on members at the national convention.
“Article 30 (iii) stipulates that the notice is served at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the national convention at which the proposed amendments are to be considered.
“APC Constitution 2014 has been in effect for almost eight years and together with judgments from courts of competent jurisdiction, administrative experiences have revealed flaws in the Constitution. It became imperative to conduct a review of the Party’s Constitution.”
The caretaker secretary emphasized that APC leaders had appointed a constitution review committee led by Professor Tahir Mamman to thoroughly review the APC Constitution, in accordance with Article 30 which provides for constitutional amendments.
Akpanudodehe disclosed that the constitution review committee adopted an all-inclusive approach which led to the draft proposals.
The National Secretary maintained that the amendment proposals include replacing the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) under a new title called ‘National Advisory Council’ with streamlined memberships and clear powers and functions.
Others, he said include clarifying ambiguities in the constitution, fill gaps that have become apparent, create zonal congresses, and clarify the powers of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) and National Working Committee (NWC).
The proposed amendments include clearer accountability by organs of the party, creating new organs for the efficient administration of the party, fair distribution of income between national and sub-national organs, and clarify disciplinary procedures and powers, etc.

Share this on WhatsApp