Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

 
Do you know that there are certain signs of extremely high blood sugar level that is noticeable on the skin? When the blood sugar level is extremely high, it is usually as a result of a condition known as diabetes and it arises when the insulin production is obstructed or the body doesn’t recognize the insulin being produced by the pancreas.
When the blood sugar level starts spiking newly, there may be no symptoms but as it gets more serious, you may notice more signs and symptoms. So in this article we are going to have a look at some of the early signs of high good sugar level that is noticeable on the skin. Just sit tight and enjoy this article while learning something new.
What Are These Signs Noticeable On The Skin?
1. Darker area of the skin like the armpit, neck or even the lower legs. This dark patches on the skin can even happen in the groin area and it happens due to excess insulin in the blood due to poor use or recognition of the hormone by the cells. It often marks the beginning of diabetes otherwise referred to as prediabetes and the condition is known as acanthosis nigricans.
2. Blisters on the skin can also be a sign of high blood sugar level caused by diabetes. If you start seeing blisters or group of blisters in the hand, leg, feet or even forearm, then it might be a good idea to get checked for diabetes. The blisters often appear like that of burns but unlike that of blisters formed due to skin burns, the blisters of diabetes are not painful.
3. Hardness and thickening of certain parts of the skin. The fingers, toes or even both might start thickening, and at the back of your hands, you may notice a waxy skin and even your fingers may start hardening and as such, you will start finding it difficult to move your finger tips. This is one of the condition that affects the skin due to extremely high blood sugar level or diabetes at an early stage and it is known as digital sclerosis. This skin thickening might also happen in the upper back, shoulder and even neck.


Share this on WhatsApp