Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State is one of the most influential politicians in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and in Nigeria as at large.
Wike is one of the few PDP Governors that wield great influence in the party. Some people say that it is because he funds the party to a great extent. Beyond funding the party as insinuated, Wike has been consistent in PDP, held party posts, helped to unite the party and he has also helped to produce key national leaders of the party including three past National Chairmen of the PDP and other officers. All these tell one that Wike is worth his onions and he has actually achieved a lot for PDP even as he holds the post of Governor.
However, Wike has been making some moves recently that inadvertently make him to step on powerful toes in the party especially as it concerns the 2023 presidential and other elections. Some of the actions taken by Wike in this regard will be discussed.
ALSO READ: Why Gov Wike accused Atiku ally, Dokpesi of working for APC
First, Wike has been touring states and meeting party leaders in the name of uniting the warring factions. While on the surface, nothing is wrong with this move. Deep down, some people read political meaning into it. Wike has visited some states already including Adamawa, Bauchi and Plateau which is the most recent one. Some people see Wike as using that opportunity to pave way for any higher political ambition he is nursing. Others think that it is not the duty of Wike to unite the warring party members as the national leadership of the PDP led by Senator Iyorchia Ayu can do that or set up a reconciliation committee to do so. In this regard, it appears that Wike is doing the duty of the national leadership.

Secondly, Wike recently blasted Chief Raymond Dokpesi who is heavily backing the presidential ambition of a former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.
ALSO READ: 2023: Why Wike may go against Jonathan’s choice of presidential candidate
Wike warned Dokpesi to stop making claims that can divide the PDP. He went ahead to accuse Dokpesi as working for the ruling party. To some people, this may be a good move by Wike but he has not only stepped on the toes of Dokpesi but also on that of Atiku whom Dopkesi is working for and Atiku’s his allies.

Finally, some people think that Wike is playing more prominent role in PDP than supposed. Wike played key role in removing the then National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus months ago. He has been very vocal in PDP. He needs to take it calm a little so as not to stir the hornet nests of those that may gang up against his ambition if he decides to contest for any higher office as his second term comes to an end in 2023.


Share this on WhatsApp