Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Without doubt, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is one of Nigeria’s most powerful politicians at the moment. The Former Governor of Lagos State is a Human Builder who has mentored a number of politicians who are now in positions of power at various levels of government.
Below is a list of Six Prominent Political Disciples of Tinubu who are presently holding Top Positions in President Muhammadu Buhari’s Cabinet:
1. Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN)
In the build-up for the 2015 General Elections, Tinubu played a major role in ensuring his nomination as the APC Vice-Presidential Candidate. During Tinubu’s tenure as Governor of Lagos State, the Professor of Law served as a two-term Commissioner for Justice.
2. Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN)
The 58-year-old politician has served as Minister of Works and Housing since 2015. Fashola is without a doubt one of the most effective Ministers in the Federal Executive Council. During Tinubu’s second term as Lagos State Governor, he served as Chief of Staff.
3. Senator Olorunimbe Mamora
Mamora, who is 68 years old, is now the Minister of State for Health. He is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s political protege. During Tinubu’s first term in office, the Ex-Senator served as Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly.
4. Engineer Rauf Aregbesola
Tinubu’s right-hand man is Aregbesola. He fought tirelessly to ensure his (Tinubu’s) emergence as Lagos State Governor in 1999. Under Tinubu’s administration, the 64-year-old politician served as a two-term Commissioner for Works. The former governor of Osun State is now the Minister of the Interior.
5. Alhaji Lai Mohammed
The current Minister of Information and Culture is a strong follower of Ahmed Tinubu.
During his first tenure as Governor of Lagos State, he served as his Chief of Staff (1999 – 2003). Later, he served as National Publicity Secretary of the Tinubu-led Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), one of the APC’s four legacy parties.
6. Sunday Dare
The 55-year-old journalist turned politician formerly served as Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity. Under President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the Oyo State native is now the Minister of Youths and Sports.
What do you think about this?



Share this on WhatsApp