Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Do you know that there are certain foods that can help promote good sleep at night? If you are the type of person that eats late at night, I am certain you must have heard that doing so can have detrimental effects on the body such as making you stay up late more than you should and many other side effects.
You are probably left in the state of bewilderment, whereby you don’t know the best kind of foods to eat before bedtime that won’t have negative effects on your body and impact negatively on your sleep. There is no need to be confused or bewildered, we are going to have a look at some foods that can be eaten before bedtime to promote good sleep. Just sit tight and enjoy this article while learning something new.
Eating the following foods before bedtime can promote good sleep;
1. Fatty Fishes; some of the fatty Fishes include; tuna, mackerel, sardine etc. The good thing about eating some of these fatty fishes before bedtime is that, they help promote good sleep. Reason being that they contain Omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D which when combined in the body helps with the production of serotonin and also boost sleep quality. So eating these fatty fishes won’t just impact on the body positively but will also help promote good sleep.
2. Turkey is another delicious food that should eat before bedtime. This is because turkey contains 8 grams of protein which is good for the body in terms of regulating appetite and also contains numerous properties among which is the amino acid tryptophan which helps the body produce melatonin. So eating turkey before bedtime can be very helpful in boosting quality sleep.
3. Walnuts; this is a natural tree nut that can also help promote quality sleep when eaten before bedtime. Walnuts contain numerous vitamins and minerals and even Omega-3 fatty acids that are often converted to DHA in the body. This DHA helps with boosting the production of Serotonin in the body thus enhancing sleep quality.


Share this on WhatsApp