BRAZIL - 2021/01/27: In this photo illustration a medical syringe seen with Facebook logo displayed on a screen in the background. (Photo Illustration by Rafael Henrique/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
UNIBEN
 
A British national, Mark Ruston has disclosed that his Facebook account was suspended for sharing photo of post- AstraZeneca baseball- sized blood clot in his arm.
Ruston, who said he volunteered to be first in line for the AstraZeneca viral vector DNA injections in early 2021, is now warning as many people as possible to protect their health and learn from his mistakes.
The U.K. was the first country to authorize the AstraZeneca injections for emergency use on December 30, 2020.
Mr. Brian Pinker, 82, was the first Brit to receive an AstraZeneca shot on January 4, 2021. He, like Mr. Ruston, was prioritized because of kidney issues.
Further, Mr. Ruston said “I didn’t see anyone for a year” after he received the shots.
READ ALSO: Canada eases COVID-19 restrictions on travellers
Doctors, with no data or science backing their assertions, told Mr. Ruston that the viral vector DNA injections are safe and won’t interfere with his kidney regimen.
Mr. Ruston said those doctors kept him alive for years, so he had no reason not to trust them. Now he is telling his post-AstraZeneca horror story that’s spanned 13 months and counting.
Mr. Ruston fell ill just days after the first injection. “It wasn’t pleasant,” he said. But ultimately he got over it and dismissed the illness as part of the vaccine process.
The reaction made Mr. Ruston even wearier about the second injection. But again, his kidney specialists told him it was fine. His entire existence flipped upside down after the second injection.
“My body temperature dropped to a more or less freezing temperature, and I could not get warm for three months,” Mr. Ruston wrote. He wore several layers of clothing and turned the heat up high in his home.
READ ALSO: Germany scraps COVID-19 restrictions in March
But his body simply would not warm itself up. Mr. Ruston reported a “foul smelling” discharge leaking from his nose for over four months as well. Severe headaches and patchy vision were also reported.
Sometime around July or August, Mr. Ruston checked himself into a hospital because his condition wasn’t improving.  A blood clot (deep vein thrombosis – DVT) was discovered in his left leg.
Mr. Ruston said he woke up on Sunday, January 16 screaming in pain.
“It felt like razor blades were being repeatedly dragged through my left arm,” he wrote.
Unfortunately it was Sunday, and he could not see his doctor that day.
Mr. Ruston called an ambulance Monday morning, January 17. By now, his wrist skin was bruising and swelling. Of course the first thing doctors did was test him for so-called COVID-19.
Doctors left Mr. Ruston for over 18 hours in a waiting room, despite the gruesome growth on his arm.
READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Nigeria berates Canada for declaring COVID protesting truckers terrorists
The condition is known as arteriovenous fistula thrombosis – a blood clot in the dialysis access point.
Though it was an obvious emergency, it took until the next afternoon, January 18, for doctors to perform the surgery. Mr. Ruston discharged himself from the hospital once he was stitched up after the procedure.
Mr. Ruston soon noticed that he could no longer fully access his Facebook account. He was given a three-day suspension from the platform for “going against our standards for misinformation.”
Ruston’s personal account of his injuries is misinformation, according to Facebook.  But that was the least of his worries.
Mr. Ruston was back in the hospital just a few days after the surgery. Doctors discovered four more blood clots in his arms and chest. He spent three days in the hospital with a heparin IV to dissolve the clots.
His Facebook account was eventually restored. But now he is careful not to type the words vaccine, AstraZeneca or anything else related to his truth.
Mr. Ruston admitted that he fell for the propaganda in the beginning of the so-called pandemic. Now he is dedicated to warning as many people as possible not to make the same mistake.
Share this on WhatsApp