Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A pro-Bola Tinubu coalition, the Support Groups Management Council, has released a statement over the circulating video of the All Progressives Congress, APC, national leader’s wet dress.
The group in their statement tried to convince Nigerians that the viral video and photographs of Tinubu in a wet dress is the work of mischief-makers.
The coalition said the viral video was manipulated, insisting that the APC national leader is healthy and ready to challenge and win the 2023 presidential election.
The Jagaban of Lagos visited some top traditional rulers in Ogun State, including the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, on Sunday. The visit was in continuation of his consultations.
READ ALSO: Aregbesola wails, says God will bring Tinubu down
After the visitations, a video of the former Lagos State Governor in a wet dress around his lower region surfaced on social media.
However, the coalition, in a statement signed by its Director of Media and Publicity, Biodun Ajiboye, described the claim as false and a malicious move by haters to discredit a successful meeting between Tinubu and the traditional rulers.
The group believes it was the alleged success of the meeting that led those they described as evildoers and enemies of progress to script a dirty tale to discredit the outing.
“Assuming without conceding that is the case, so is it the back of his knees that would be wet and not the bum area? So if he wetted his babariga, he would not cover it and would still move to be flat to greet the Awujale of Ijebuland in the full glare of everyone present?” The coalition wondered.
“It was the usual photo-shop manipulations and shallow mental agility that pushed them to dispense a feeble narrative that made no iota of sense.
“Yet as their video showed, it was after their wetting incident that he went ahead and prostrated to Kabiyesi,” the group said.
According to them, this was another way to distract their presidential aspirant, which will amount to nothing, adding that Tinubu has his leg on the throttle and there is no going back.
“We want to assure Nigerians that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is healthy and strong enough to undertake the responsibilities involved in the expected rigours of campaigns and politicking when the time comes,” they maintained.
Share this on WhatsApp