Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






The incumbent governor of Osun state, Gboyega Oyetola has won massively in Osogbo, defeating the candidate of the former governor, Mr Adeoti.

According to figures, Oyetola got 22,265 votes while Adeoti got just 655 votes.

If this is added to the votes already on ground, Oyetola is definitely close to victory in the election.

Oyetola garnered 2238 votes at Ward 03 Boripe during APC primary election held on Saturday.
READ ALSO: Osun APC Primary: Aregbesola loses own ward to Oyetola

Osun State Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyelola has cleared all votes cast in his polling unit during APC governorship primary election for Osun 2022.

Oyetola garnered 2238 votes at Ward 03 Boripe during APC primary election held on Saturday.

Governor Gboyega Oyetola
FactualTimes reports that the incumbent Governor challenger Alhaji Moshood Adeoti and Lasun Yusuf did not record any vote.

The Governor while speaking with newsmen  applauded the members of the party for turning out in large number said, “losing was not an option for a man commissioned by God for an assignment.”

He lauded Osun people for conducting themselves peacefully, saying the peaceful conduct of the election has testified to the fact that Osun remains the most peaceful State in the country.

The Governor noted that news of violence making the rounds were mere speculations.

This followed rumours in the build-up to the State’s primary election of the All Progressive Congress of possible onslaught by the members of the splinter group within the Party called TOP.
READ ALSO: Osun: Aregbesola dares Tinubu, backs Adeoti as APC holds primary

The group, comprising loyalists of immediate past governor and current Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, had produced two aspirants Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, who was a former Secretary to the State Government, and Hon. Lasun Yusuff, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. But Adeoti was preferred by Aregbesola.

Oyetola however appealed to citizens across the State to maintain peace and decorum, adding that elections should not be a battle.

“By the grace of God I will emerge victorious. To us, losing is not an option for a man commissioned by God for an assignment.

“I just want to appeal to all our people across the State to maintain peace. Election process should not be a battlefield or a do-or-die affair. Let everyone exercise his/her tight to choose in determining who represents them at the party level and ultimately at the general elections.

“So far so good, I think this process has gone well contrary to the speculation of violence. We have been in contact with a number of places and we have received positive signals of peace.

“Really, I don’t see why choosing a candidate to represent the party should be a thing of violence”, he said.






Share this on WhatsApp