Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State, told his more than 200 appointees in Lafia on Monday to be loyal to his administration, and to the All Progressives Congress (APC) or resign their appointments.
He told them at a meeting that he had no intention of firing any of them, but those no longer comfortable with the administration should leave voluntarily, just as he decried the level of acrimony between the appointees.
He said the meeting became necessary as the appointees were working at cross-purposes.
“I don’t want to fire anybody. I believe that it is important first to ask people out of respect to either change their ways to be loyal to the government or to quit.
“If I am not loyal to somebody, I have no business working for that person. If you know you are disloyal to government, please be human and resign,’’ the governor charged.
He also clarified the emergence of the party’s presidential candidate from the southern part of the country and said it was based on the democratic credentials of the APC.
“We don’t want the northern part of the country to be seen as people who don’t keep promises. We want to protect the image of the North.
“We want the North to be seen as a region that can make sacrifices also for other parts of the country.
“We believe in fairness; we believe this position should rotate to the South, irrespective of who emerges; let the people in the South be democratic,’’ he said.
The governor debunked rumours that any of his colleagues from the North was given money to support the zoning of the presidential ticket of the APC to the South.
Commenting on the fallout of the APC primary elections, the governor said his administration had set in motion machinery to reconcile aggrieved party members.
He assured that efforts were being made to appease members of the party who felt hurt by the outcomes of the exercise across the country.
Gov. Sule equally charged his political appointees to ensure to mobilise their community members to obtain Permanent Voter Cards.
Share this on WhatsApp