Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Sunday congratulated Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on his victory in the Saturday governorship election in Osun State, saying that the victory will further change the political map of the southwest.
Governor Ortom commended Adeleke for his steadfastness, hard work and commitment to the welfare of the people to earn the victory, declaring that “the people have spoken.”
According to Ortom, “the victory of the party in Osun State will further change the political map of the Southwest as the PDP is ready to rescue the country from its undertakers in the APC.”
Governor Ortom commended the people of Osun State, including the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the media , civil society organizations (CSOs) and security operatives for safe guiding the process and ensure the will of the people prevailed in the election. he charged the emergent governor to serve the people well to justify the massive support they gave him at the polls.
The Benue Governor in a statement declared: “On behalf of myself, the government, and the PDP family in Benue State, I congratulate Senator Ademola Adeleke on his election as the Governor-elect of Osun State. I am convinced that you will provide an enduring leadership for the people in appreciation for the massive support they have given you by your election.
“The victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Senator Adeleke, in the Osun election is a measure of trust and confidence of the citizens on him and the party.”
He urged Adeleke to carry everybody along, and not take the victory of the people for granted.
According to Governor Ortom, the people of Osun have given him victory to change the narrative by bringing positive changes to the state.
He also declared: the victory of Adeleke, “is a precursor to the sweet round of victories awaiting the PDP as we begin to take back all the states in our resolve to rescue Nigeria from the destruction meted to it by the clueless APC-led federal government.”
Governor Ortom also congratulated the PDP National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, and the PDP National Working Committee on the Osun victory.
Share this on WhatsApp