Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Plateau State All Progressive Congress (APC), has said all the three Local Government Council Chairmen sacked or suspended by their respective Legislatures, did not follow due process, adding that the Chairmen should remain in office.
The three affected LGA are Mangu, Jos North and Langtang North, our correspondent reports.
Spokesman for the party, Hon.Sylvanus Namang in a statement sent to our correspondent, Saturday urged the affect LG Chairmen to maintain status quo.
According to him: “The quarrel is between the Legislative and Executive Arms of government, leading to the Legislative arm threatening to suspend, impeach or have even passed a vote of no confidence on the said Chairmen or their deputies.
“Whatever are the merit or demerit of the actions by the Legislative Arms in the said local governments, the APC in the state calls for calm.
“The status quo ante should be maintained in the said local governments, which is that all the actions taken or purported to have been taken against the Executive Arms should be suspended forthwith.
“The APC is a party built on a solid foundation of law and order and has a very strong dispute resolution mechanism which were not deployed or exhausted in these cases.
“The party hereby commends the roles of Governor Simon Lalong through his Deputy, Professor Sonni Gwanle Tyoden, the Plateau State House of Assembly Committee on Local Government and Chieftaicy Affairs, the Honourable Commissioner of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, the Attorney General and Commissiner of Justice and security agencies in the state in promptly restoring sanity and law and order in the affected local governments.
“The party wants to assure the feuding parties and the public that it would dig into the roots causes of the disquiet in the affected LAG’s and any infraction discovered would not go without appropriate sanction”, Namang said.
Our correspondent reports that there were tension in the past week in three LGAs in Plateau, where LGA Legislatures were said to have impeached their Chairmen.














Share this on WhatsApp