Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe tragic news of the death of popular Nigerian actress Ada Ameh came as a rude shock to everyone and has thrown social media into mourning.
While many are saddened over how much the actress lost before dying, controversial journalist, Kemi Olunloyo revisited her fight with Ameh.
In a post on her Instagram page, Olunloyo revealed how Ada Ameh threatened her over Sylvester Oromoni’s case.
She added that the actress who called her crazy and other derogatory names also recruited her fans and urged them to beat her up for telling the truth.
Olunloyo also listed several other people like Tonto Dikeh who were also mean to her like Ada Ameh was.
See the post below:
“I learned Ada was dining yesterday with friends and suddenly slumped and collapsed. She threatened me and urged her fans to beat me for exposing the truth about the #SylvesterOromoni case in December 2021. She called me crazy, mad and mentally derailed. I’m non of that. I was simply doing my job as a journalist defending media freedom.”
See reaction below
9ine_marley:
“She always try to seek attention with everything.”
shofelatemiloluwa:
“This lady never knows when to stop!”
whitesprings_travel_services:
“What’s the essence of the long epistle. You said so much without really saying anything. Abeg shift.”
hrh.e.r:
“Kemi you wrote all these to gain what exactly ? Even if your conscience is dead, others are grieving, Ada’s death is so shocking and heartbreaking.”
_goodybae_:
“This Kemi is a sorry mistake for a woman, wtf is this write up for??? Is it necessary?? Ffs the woman is dead, allow her rest in peace ‍‍‍‍‍”
comcy619:
“Which kind yeye message be this ? This person has a hardened heart and unforgiving spirit “
a_n_i_t_a.i:
“I can’t believe kemi will go so low,so you are mocking the dead?death is inevitable!!!”
sir_eltee:
“She wants to make it look like it was Karma. I wonder what goes on in this woman’s mind. She talks anyhow and doesn’t know when to shut up.”
Share this on WhatsApp