Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveFeelers from the camp of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers state revealed that the governor has ruled out the possibility of any discussion with the Peoples Democratic Party presidential flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar.
A source said Wike, who has returned from Turkey, has foreclosed a one-on-one meeting with Atiku, citing lack of faith in any personal agreement with the candidate, instead of reconciliation talks with Atiku by his team.
The party has been engulfed in crisis since Atiku picked Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate instead of Wike.
READ ALSO: Presidency 2023: Wike too big for running mate, should negotiate 2027 presidential ticket – Reno Omokri
Although the Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman, Senator Walid Jibrin, had suggested that Atiku should lead a reconciliation team to Wike, who also contested for the presidential ticket at the primary, the governor indicated that he would rely on the advisory from his “Strategy Team”.
It was learnt that emissaries have traced Wike to Turkey where he was on vacation while Atiku’s lobbyists were said to have offered the Petroleum Minister’s portfolio to him, if Atiku is elected in next year’s election.
Also yesterday, a BoT member, Waziri Adamu, suggested that Wike should be appointed as Director-General of the Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation.
The source said: “There is no likelihood of Wike having one-on-one private discussion with Atiku. Shortly after the primary, the governor had a side meeting with Atiku in Abuja and nothing was adhered to.
READ ALSO: Tinubu breaks silence on meeting with Wike in France
“He was shocked that Atiku had not told Nigerians what transpired between him and Wike after the primary and how he arrived at Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as a running mate.
“Since there was no full disclosure, Wike has directed that fresh talks with Atiku should be with his strategy team members, who will come up with an advisory for him.”
Wike’s strategists include Governors Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Samuel Ortom (Benue); ex-governors Hassan Dankwambo (Gombe); Ayodele Fayose (Ekiti) and Donald Duke (Cross River), among others.
On what transpired between Atiku and Wike, the source said: “You can also crosscheck what I will tell you from the camp of the ex-VP. Following the euphoria of winning the primary, Atiku visited Wike to seek his support,
“He promised to make him a vice presidential candidate. Wike said he does not want the office, but that Atiku should consider ex-Governor Donald Duke. Atiku and his supporters prevailed on Wike to be his running mate.
“There was much pressure on Wike to agree to the offer. A 17-man committee was also set up by the leadership of the party and 14 of the 17 members recommended Wike as Atiku’s running mate.
Share this on WhatsApp