Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Governor Adegboyega Oyetola will today, July 16 test his popularity in a battle to retain his seat as the people of Osun state go to vote to decide who becomes governor of the state again.
Already, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released a list of 15 political parties that would participate in today’s election where 1,955,657 eligible indigenes had been registered and 1,475,595 have already collected their voter cards ready to determine the winner of the election.
The list released by INEC showed Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the APC, Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP, Akinade Ogunbiyi of the Accord Party, former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yusuf Lasun, of the Labour Party.
READ ALSO: Osun 2022: Atiku boosts winning chances of Adeleke, PDP
Also, the AAC has presented Awojide Segun, Kehinde Atanda of the ADP, Awoyemi Lukuman of the APM, Adebayo Elisha of the APP, Adeleke Adedapo of the BP, Rasaq Saliu of the NNPP, Abede Samuel of the NRM, Ayowole Adedeji of the PRP, Omigbodun Akinrinola of the SDP, Ademola Adeseye of the YPP and Adesuyi Olufemi of the ZLP.
However, the election is certain to be a re-match between Oyetola and Adeleke as they lead the strongest, more formidable political parties to the election.
Aside from the fact that some chieftains of the APC and political appointees have formed political groups many of which would be mobilised for the election, the involvement of some traditional rulers is obvious in the electoral processes in the state. Some traditional rulers, in apparent neglect of tradition, have been involved in open partisanship and declared their support for Oyetola.
There is no gainsaying the fact that Adeleke has the total support of his billionaire brother, Deji; the father of the popular singer, Davido, and he has the financial muscle to flesh. This, according to analysts, propelled the PDP candidate to declare the election as “fire for fire,” saying he has brought dollars, pounds sterling and Euros.
The Deputy Inspector General of Police in charge of the election, Mr. Johnson Kokumo, said at the end of Police interactive session with ‘Accredited Election Observer Groups’, NGOs and the media, ahead of the election that human and vehicular movements would be restricted from midnight of Saturday till 6.00pm of the same date (Election Day), but essential workers and accredited election observers and media would be allowed to operate.
READ ALSO: Osun Election: Adeleke loses at appeal court
Also, the NSCDC had deployed 11,226 personnel to provide security for the election.
The FRSC had also deployed 1, 500 personnel, 35 vehicles and two trucks and ambulances to clear road obstructions, carry out rescue operations in case of emergencies, and maintain orderliness in polling booths.
Meanwhile, the NSCDC assured members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) deployed for the election of their safety.
Meanwhile, the chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has urged the Commission’s staff members to resist any unethical behaviour in the election.
Yakubu gave the charge in his message to INEC members of staff on Friday, appealing to them to uphold the INEC Code of Conduct, displaying the usual sense of commitment and professionalism.


Share this on WhatsApp