Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The CIG Motors, authorized distributors of GAC vehicles in Nigeria has signed a memorandum of Understanding with Wema bank, as the bank undertakes to finance another batch of 1000 GAC units.
Speaking at the signing of the MoU, Executive Director of Wema Bank, Wole Ajimisinmi, said the bank agreed to be a part of the scheme to allow its customers to buy new cars in a financially convenient manner.
“In other countries such as the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Germany, and other parts of the world, young adults own their personal cars which enable them to meet their personal mobility and economic needs with ease. This is however not the same in Nigeria, spurring the GAC brand to design cars specifically for the upwardly mobile young adults in Nigeria.
The Chairman of CIG Motors, Chief Diana Chen explained that the partnership with the select financial institutions was designed to enable customers to acquire new vehicles in a financially convenient manner.
READ ALSO: FG probes Wema Bank, others over illegal accounts opening
“With the easy buy agreement, Nigerians would not need to cough out the entire cost of a vehicle at once. There are several benefits to owning a car and we’re very thankful to this financial institution for making Nigerians privy to these benefits with GAC cars
Chief Chen also stated that her company offers more than vehicle sales, as it provides absolute after-sales services, backed by genuine spare parts.
She made this assertion penultimate week when the Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, commissioned the new ultra-modern GAC G-Styled showroom on Victoria Island, Lagos.
According to Chief Chen, GAC also offers technical training to Nigerian technicians and engineers by way of technology transfer via its nation-wide dealerships.
She added that “we are so proud to open our showroom and workshop, and we plan to open five of such facilities across the country”.
The Auto boss who was named Nigeria Auto CEO of the year recently, explained that with the opening of the G-Style showroom, the company is offering the G-Elite, G-Star and G-Family packages to different segments of the society which comes with numerous benefits.
The governor, who was visibly impressed with the drive of the company in Nigeria, stated that “Chief Diana Chen (Chairman of CIG Motors, franchise holder of GAC in Nigeria) is doing a great job”.
Sanwo-Olu expressed delight in the fact that GAC and Lagos state government have entered into a partnership to build an auto assembly plant which he expects to be commissioned this year in Ogba area of the state.
The governor also unveiled the newly improved award winning GS4 Crossover SUV, which is a very popular model on Nigerian roads.
General Manager of CIG Motors, Jubril Arogundade, explained that the GS4 which is in its second generation, comes with ample leg room, three driving modes, amazing comfort and fuel economy as well as seamless navigation system.
Share this on WhatsApp