Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe former Chief of Army Staff, Ambassador Tukur Buratai through Mr. Bello Isah has slammed a lawsuit against popular online tabloid, The Peoples Gazette over false publication.
The Peoples Gazette had published in June that ICPC recovered multi-million naira cash, Rolex wristwatches and apartment from the former Chief of Army Staff meanwhile, the ICPC official statement never reflected People Gazette’s position.
In a court document, People Gazette was given 42 days to appear before the court to answer some questions and provide evidence to back up their claims against the person of Ambassador Tukur Buratai.
READ ALSO: Traditional ruler warns critics to stop malicious campaign against Buratai 
The Plaintiff claims against the Defendant as follows: (1) A Declaration that the refusal, failure and or neglect by the Defendant to release the information requested by the Plaintiff in his letter dated June 28 2022 amounts to a violation of Section 4(a) of the Freedom of Information Act 2011 and therefore is wrongful and illegal.
(2) An ORDER DIRECTING the Defendant including her servants, agents, privies, officials and or cohorts to furnish the Plaintiff with detailed information as stated in Plaintiff’s letter dated June 28 2022 until Judgment is delivered in this case within 14 days of the delivery of Judgment.
(3) The cost of this Action. (4)Any further order (s) as the Court may deem fit and proper to make in the circumstances of this case.
Also part of the court summon which was tagged CASH, ROLEX WATCHES STOCKPILED IN EX-ARMY CHIEF BURATAI’S ABUJA”, now produced and marked EXHIBITA stated that the June 28 2022 letter of the Plaintiff requested the following response from the Defendant viz:
“1. Did you verify the allegations contained in your write up with ICPC before publishing? This is because the ICPC press release of June 24, 2022 states to the contrary that Buratai owns the house in Wuse lI Abuja or has links with the K Salam Construction Company Nigeria Limited.

Did you check with the corporate affairs commission as to who the Owners of the K Salam Construction Company Nigeria Limited are? And perhaps whether Buratai’s name appears as part of the company directorship?
You claimed you called Buratai during the ICPC raid on the Wuse 2 House. At what time and day did you call Ambassador Buratai? What number did you use in calling him? And which of the Buratai lines did you call?

READ ALSO: Buhari aide behind malicious publication against Buratai – HURIWA
(d) But surprisingly and since the receipt of the request/application letter, and up till the filing of this suit, the Defendant has so far failed, refused and /or neglected to provide the Plaintiff with the details of the information requested for.

That I know as a fact by being a PUBLISHER /JOURNALIST that:

(a) By virtue of Section 1 (1) of the FOI Act 2011, PLAINTIFF is entitled as of right to request for or gain access to information which is in the custody or possession of any public official, agency or institution.

Share this on WhatsApp