Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN) has canvassed support for its proposed Bible House in Lagos.
The society made the appeal at its 15th Annual Luncheon and Awards held on Thursday in Lagos.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the theme of the event was: “Divine Mason: Vessels in the Order of Solomon.”
Speaking at the event, the Lead Pastor, the Elevation Church, Pastor Goodman Akinlabi, urged Nigerian Christians, irrespective of denomination, to contribute to building a befitting Bible House.
Akinlabi said the Bible Society was doing a great work in the interpretation, printing and distribution of the Bible, as such, it needed the support of everyone.
According to him, the diligent study of the Bible has helped to shape the destinies of people and preparing a people befitting for the kingdom of God.
In his goodwill message, the General Secretary/Chief Executive Officer(CEO) of the Society, Pastor Samuel Sanusi thanked everyone who had been supportive of the society.
Sanusi decried the poor state of the place housing the society and urged well meaning Nigerians and churches to see the Bible project as belonging to everyone.
According to him, the complexity and rigour it takes in interpretation, publishing and Bible distribution requires a befitting place
The CEO expressed gratitude to the Special Members Forum of the society for all they have been doing in raising funds to support the work of making the Word of God available.
Sanusi said that the society had been operating in a rented apartment in the last four years at Onipanu.
“The place is small and not conducive for optimum productivity.
” I wish to inform you that the work of making the Bible available is seriously threatened with our lack of conducive office environment.
“We appeal to you to partner with God to make this possible,” Sanusi said.
He said that the blind and the deaf and many others who need the Bible in special format were counting on the support of well meaning Nigerians to help them have access to the Bible
Also, the Patron of the society, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd) thanked the Special Members group for their kind support in promoting Bible work.
Gowon also congratulated the award recipient for supporting Bible work.
The Chairman of the occasion, Dr Daniel Olumefun, said that BSN was proposing to build a Bible House that would cost N2.2 billion.
He said that only N130 million has been raised so far in the past three years.
” On behalf of the Special Members Forum of the society, I enjoin you to partner with God on this project to make it a reality,” Olumefun said.
The climax of the event was the presentation of awards to Lady Maiden Ibru, Chairman, Publisher of the Guardian Newspapers and Dr Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosumu, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp