Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAs media reports poured in following the Kuje prison attack some ISWAP fighters pulled through in Abuja on Tuesday night, there are reasons to confirm the theory about insiders facilitating the success of the attack.
Sources have been quoted confirming there was intelligence the terrorists were about to strike the facility, but those decision-makers dawdled.
There is a report again that some of the escapees spoke with their moles in the security agencies.
“Two of the terrorists that escaped called a police investigation officer (IPO) in one of our stations and spoke to him in a compromising manner…They are now being investigated to know their level of complicity,” the Daily Trust quoted a source as saying.
Another confirmation of dereliction also came from the publisher of the Desert Herald interfacing independently and negotiating with the terrorists who attacked, kidnapped, and held hostage passengers of an Abuja-Kaduna train months ago.
Tukur Mamu, in a press release Wednesday in Kaduna said he had shared intelligence reports with authorities concerned but they allegedly failed to act on the information.
“I can confirm without doubt that the Kuje Correctional Centre attack was executed and coordinated by the same group that attacked the Abuja-Kaduna bound train because they gave indications of imminent attacks to that effect which I shared.
“For the records, they requested for the release of 51 of their members. But through the power of dialogue and engagement, I was able to single-handedly scaled that number to only 10 and communicated with audio backing the development to the relevant authorities.
“There was an unnecessary delay on giving them even a precise feedback by the government and now they have not only succeeded in carrying out another successful attack that indicts the nature of our intelligence and capacity to respond promptly but have also succeeded in releasing dozens of their members, which would have been averted if actions has been taken to give them only 10 and secure the release of the train victims,” Mamu said.
“In all this risky, painful and frustrating engagement, which government is yet to acknowledge and appreciate, I have more than 100 documented audios that I shared with the relevant authorities.
For the purpose of this important press release and to authenticate my claims, I will also share four of the latest audios,” he said.
President Muhammadu Buhari visted the place on Wednesday, ad demanded a report after expressing his disappointment in the security agencies.
Share this on WhatsApp