Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


All of us yawn. We open our mouths wide to receive some air into our lungs and breathe it out. It’s an involuntary way of taking a deep breath. Sometimes we yawn just by looking at someone who is yawning.
However, when you yawn consistently, there could be an underlying health condition. According to Healthline, it is caused by some underlying health conditions that you need to know about. Although there’s nothing wrong with yawning once in a while.
This can happen when we are tired or feel bored after a busy day. However, when you find yourself yawning constantly, it’s a sign of an underlying health condition. Here are some health conditions that can make people yawn excessively:
1. Some can begin to yawn constantly when there’s an upcoming heart or liver problem. They yawn all the time to relieve themselves of chest pain or shortness of breath.
2. Yawning excessively can be a sign of sleep deprivation, which has caused fatigue in your body. Each time you feel sleepy and there’s no chance to take a nap, you keep yawning. It means you need to get some rest. This usually happens to those who work at night.
3. It’s also a sign that you’ve recently stressed your body beyond its limit. Stress is a risk factor for those that are susceptible to heart problems. Whenever you find yourself yawning excessively, your body is trying to tell you that you need to avoid things that can stress your nerves and your mind.
4. When you take certain drugs for some time, they can make you yawn constantly, such as antidepressant drugs or antianxiety drugs. This type of yawning is not associated with sleep deprivation; it is only a side effect you experience when taking these drugs.
5. When someone has a neurological or central nervous system disorder, the person can lose consciousness and begin to yawn excessively.
.6. Sometimes you might yawn consistently when your body is trying to tell you that you need to drink some water. It means your body is dehydrated.


Share this on WhatsApp