Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the  People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Hon Hakeem Amode, has raised eyebrows on the recent approval of fare increase in the Lagos Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, describing the action as a clear lack of compassion and total disregard for the economic hardship already suffered by Lagosians.

It will be recalled that following government approval on June 30th,the spokesman of Lagos State Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Mr.Kolawole Ojelabi stated that there is now an additional flat rate of N100  on all trips within the state that will take effect from July 13 .

Consequent upon which a trip from Ikorodu to TBS will now cost N600 naira instead of N500 naira; Berger to Ajah will now increase to N700 from N600 naira ,this will also affect other routes within the state.

The fare increase was first experienced in 2020 during the heat of COVID-19 pandemic.
Hon. Amode berates the  APC lead government for blaming the hike in the pump price of diesel  from N187 to N830 Naira ,and the unavailability of spare parts for the increase, claiming it was a result of its ineptitude thus far.

Amode said that: “The crippling economic situation, being experienced by Lagosians on a daily basis was brought about by this same government’s ineptitude.

“The Lagos State government has shown lack of compassion and total disregard for the plight of the citizens of the state.

The Lagos PDP spokesman Amode added  that the Governor Sanwo-Olu lead APC administration has completely abdicated its responsibility to the people of the state,and turned a blind eye to  their predicament.

“The few ‘Luxuries’ that the people benefit from the state is being taken away.

“Now is not the time for any form of increment, as the people of the state have suffered enough under this unsympathetic government.

He called on the APC led government to shelve the proposed increase so as not to worsen the citizens’ situation in the face of dilapidated infrastructure, insecurity,  hunger, rise in crime, among others being experienced by the people of the state.



Share this on WhatsApp