Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love



Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, the vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  has emphasized that the governorship election Osun State on Saturday is critical to Nigerians because it would signpost the beginning of the ‘Rescue Nigeria ‘mission.
Okowa, addressing PDP supporters in Osogbo on Wednesday, emphasized that the Osun election will give hope to Nigerians that positive change was in the offing.
The Delta governor stated: “I want to thank our leaders who have spoken to us. I want to also thank all our followers for showing that they are truly good followers.
“Osun election is very critical and important to the PDP. This election is very important to us because if we win in Osun, it will send a strong signal that we are ready to rescue the nation.
“The foundation of what is to come is that we have to deliver Osun state to be able to inspire hope and change the narrative in the country for positive development.
“So, we are pleading with you generally to look beyond your differences and look at what the PDP stands for by working together for the victory of the party in Saturday’s governorship election in the state.
“We cannot allow this nation to continue to suffer, we cannot allow a situation where our children will continue to be at home instead of being in school.
“People are pained because of insecurity, devaluation of the naira and other challenges but if we are to turn around this nation for good, we must work together to form the government at the national level.
“With PDP, there is great hope for the future. It is for us to collectively work together for the success of the party starting with the Osun election.”
the State Chairman of the Osun State PDP Governorship Campaign Council, Senator Douye Diri, also stated: “as a miracle governor we have come here to rub it off on Osun people.
“By God’s grace, we will break the ice because we have had very fruitful meetings with our leaders and all that we have agreed we will implement them.
“Let me assure you that with the matured, competent and capable leaders we have here, I foresee success for our party in the Osun Governorship election
“Osun state election is not just for Osun people, it is a test case for the 2023 general elections and I am sure that our party will not be disappointed.”
Other PDP Governors at the party’s mega rally include Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State, and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. Governor Okowa appealed to PDP leaders to sheath their swords and support the party’s candidate for the Saturday governorship election, Senator Ademola Adeleke.
Diri berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its choice of Muslim-Muslim ticket, saying that APC had taken the country backward with over 100 years.
according to Diri, “Today, our currency is the worst in Africa and the world. So, let us come together to defeat them and that starts with our victory on Saturday.”
Former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, welcoming the PDP leaders, emphasized: “today marks another positive turning point in the history of PDP.
“The in-coming Vice President of our country wouldn’t have found time to be here if not that they are deeply interested in the unity and success of our party in Osun State.
“We have listened to them and they have promised immediate action and we are satisfied with their discussions with us and as leaders, we will not disappoint your expectations.
“PDP is the party that the entire people of Osun State want to lead them and we are hopeful of victory on Saturday.”





Share this on WhatsApp