Pastor of Christ Embassy Lagos Zone 5 and CEO of Loveworld Incorporated Pastor Dr. Deola Phillips leading the awareness campaign at the weekend.
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveBy Odunewu Olusegun
 
The esteemed Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Lagos Zone 5 and Chief Executive Officer of Loveworld Incorporated, Pastor Dr. Deola Phillips on Sunday July 24th led thousands of members of the Church on a street campaign aimed at sensitizing the public about the Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris which holds Friday July 29th through Sunday July 31st from 3pm daily
Addressing the multitudes of people who participated at the awareness campaign on Sunday, Dr. Phillips said the Healing Streams Live Healing Services will showcase God’s healing power as billions all over the world will connect from multiple places to this source of hope and faith.
“In this month Healing Streams Live Healing Services with Pastor Chris, we’re targeting seven billion people across the globe. The services are set to minister healing to many sick people around the world, regardless of their location.
READ ALSO: Christ Embassy distributes millions of Rhapsody of Realities, wins souls into God’s Kingdom
“Through this program, many will come in contact with the healing ministry of our man of God. The sick, oppressed, depressed, and afflicted will be healed and made free during the program. Kindly Click Here to Register.

“You can register now and play your part in getting others to participate in the Live Healing Services at >www.healingstreams.tv/3days. You can also sponsor the program and ensure its reach to 7 billion people all over the world. Details of the event and how to join virtually is on www.healingstreams.tv/virtual.
She explained that the Healing School is a healing ministry under the auspices of Pastor Chris Oyakhilome’s Christ Embassy church of which many believers from around the globe turn to for healing from various pains, ailments and health conditions.
“Thousands of people have testified to miraculous healing just from watching the Healing Streams sessions with Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, and people should expect more from this month’s special edition.
READ ALSO: Christ Embassy lights up Abuja with Faith and Miracles Crusade
Speaking further, Dr. Phillips said millions of people all over the world are sharing the great news of the event, as signs through billboards, advertorials on buses, trains, and other sources have got every home, every street, every community, every city, and every nation into a grip of expectations hoping for the great moments with Pastor Chris.
one of the leaders in the zone, who is also the MD/CEO of Ehi-Kings Property, Ehikioya Kingsley, emphasized that the Live Healing Services have become special times of signs and wonders, postmarked with remarkable miracles and testimonies.
“Paralysis, cancer, HIV, tuberculosis, mental disorders, and all manner of sicknesses and diseases are healed when the power of God touches those who need healing.
“Anyone anywhere can receive a miracle. Testimonies are the Word of God clothed within stories. When they are told, they communicate faith and power for the miraculous. The best part is that people don’t have to leave where they are or travel thousands of miles to get to this program,” he added.
Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has held various online and televised events, mentoring and healing the afflicted with his prayers and sermons across borders.
Christ Embassy has millions of followers worldwide, with a network of thousands of churches spread all over the globe.
Share this on WhatsApp