Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Coalition of Arewa Youths for Peace and National Development has removed Vice Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Kashim Shettima, as its patron over comment he made about Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi.



Recall that Shettima had in an interview on Arise TV last weekend, questioned the capacity and competence of the former Governor of Anambra State, to lead the country as president.



The Northern group pointed out that Shettima had “in a derogatory tone,” said that the LP flag-bearer could best be a “president in Igboland”, thereby attracting criticisms from thousands of the latter’s supporters, who identify themselves as “Obi-dients” among other well meaning Nigerians.”



Shettima was quoted saying; ”The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi has no political base and structure to win the next election in 2023. As far as I am concerned, he’s politically structureless with little or no experience to lead this country.



“Presidential position is not for the unprepared neither is it an all comers’ affair. Peter Obi can only become a President in Igboland but definitely not in Nigeria. Nigeria is too big for him to handle.



COAYPANU condemned the comment, describing it as “provocative”. The youths group called on Nigerians “to reject politicians that promote bigotry,and other tendencies that threaten peace and unity.”



They added that ”Shettima’s attack on Obi smacked off perceived bigotry.” The statement released by the group’s National President, Alhaji Mohammed Gwadabe, read;



“Considering the weight of the provocative,divisive and reckless statement made by our patron, Alhajji Kashim Shettima which is against the spirit of unity we stand for, and following consultations from members across the 19 states of Northern Nigeria, and approval from National Executive Committee in our emergency congress held, we, by this statement, announced the immediate removal of the APC Vice Presidential candidate as our patron.



We are ashamed to associate ourselves with someone of Shettima’s standing who, despite piloting the affairs of his native Borno State as governor

Share this on WhatsApp