Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Nigerian military in coordinated operations dislodged Boko Haram bases in northern Nigerian, compelling six Boko Haram commanders to surrender to Troops of HADIN KAI.
The Detector of Communications of the Defence Headquarters, Major General Bernard Onyeuko, at the bi-weekly briefing in Abuja, indicated that the Boko Haram commanders surrendered to the troops in Gwoza on Wednesday.
According to Onyeuko, “It is pertinent to note that since the surrendering of terrorists to troops, the high calibre of Commanders surrendered at this time is unprecedented among them a WALI (Governor) and KAID (a 3-star Commander).
“The surrendered are Mallam Mala Hassan (WALI), Ali Madagali (MUNZUR), Musa Bashir (CHIEF ANUR), Buba Dahiru (MUNZUR), Jafar Hamma (KAID) and Abbali NAKIB Polisawa.
“Also, about 3,858 Boko Haram Terrorists and their families surrendered between 1 – 14 July 2022, comprising 505 male, 1,042 Female and 2,311 children.”
The director also disclosed that in the war theatre, troops dislodged several Boko Haram/Islamic State of West African Province terrorists during the period under review at different encounters at Gamage village in Dikwa Local Government Area, Dikwa – Gambora Ngala road, Pulka – Gwale road in Borno State, among others. He added that several terrorists’ logistics suppliers/collaborators were arrested with various items at various locations within the theatre. Among them were two women namely, Hauwa Gambo and Khadija Dirsa.
He narrated that the Air Component of Operation HADIN KAI conducted air interdiction operation on 11 July 2022 at Tumbum Jaki and Tumbum Murhu near Lake Chad, Borno State, on receiving intelligence on the activities of the terrorists in the general area.
The director stated that the successful airstrike dislodged Boko Haram terrorists and destroyed their hideout. “Accordingly, information received from locals indicate that over 21 terrorists were neutralized in the airstrike,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp