Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

In a press release, the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), the attention of the management of LASTMA has been drawn to a newspaper report that claimed an individual named Modibo Usman died from cardiac arrest as a result of an encounter with its officers.
The management explained that on Friday, July 22, Mr. Usman was driven in his car by his son who ran afoul of the traffic signal light, therefore, violating the Lagos State Traffic Law and the vehicle was subsequently impounded by LASTMA officials.
LASTMA further explained that after the apprehension, Usman, his son requested to disembark at a nearby medical laboratory for a previous appointment and later to visit LASTMA’s office to resolve the traffic offence issue, which the officers obliged and took the impounded vehicle to the premises of the Agency.
READ ALSO: Shitty Fight: Bus driver smears LASTMA officer with poo
Stating that a video revealing discussions between the deceased and LASTMA officers is available and its contents are totally at variance with the incident reported in the newspaper and has become a regular practice for traffic violators to conjure untruths about LASTMA officers of demanding bribes in order to release impounded vehicles.
While such individuals rarely provide evidence to substantiate claims made in such instances, it said.
The release added that, unfortunately, the Punch reporter did not explore the cordial relationship with LASTMA to determine the accurate course of events before publishing the news story.
It clarified further that LASTMA officers had departed the scene of impounding the vehicle and were not privy to events that led to the demise of Modibo Usman.
Members of the public are therefore encouraged to remain law abiding at all times as LASTMA would continue to enforce compliance with the law in a responsible and professional manner.
LASTMA pleaded with residents to report any case of unprofessional conduct of its personnel to the Agency in order to curb indecent behaviour among some of its officers.
Share this on WhatsApp