Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The menace of Police brutality reared its ugly head again in Lagos State when some policemen drove against traffic on a highway and also slapped a lawyer who challenged them for doing so. They also took him away.


However, in a swift reaction to the incident, the Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Police Command, Benjamin Hundeyin, condemned the act of the policemen but added that he had spoken to the Area Commander who had ordered the lawyer to be released.
A comedian popularly known as Mr Macaroni who wrote about the incident on his Twitter handle @mrmacaroni, disclosed that the policemen inside a patrol vehicle drove against traffic at the Ebute Meta area of the state, making the traffic gridlock to become worse.
He added that a lawyer challenged them and for challenging them, he was said to have been slapped while they also took him in their vehicle to Area C command.
According to his tweet: “Nigerian Police!!! Don’t you guys get tired of oppressing the people? Some officers passed one way at Ebute-Meta, making the gridlock on the road worse. @Ridwanullahii challenged them and next thing was slap! They dragged him and have forcefully taken him to Area C Command!
“I’m so tired of this wickedness from police officers all the time. What happened? Why must you people oppress us at any given time? You passed one way to disturb other road users, someone asked why and you started to brutalise him.”
However, his tweets got the attention of the Lagos State Police PRO who disclosed that though driving against traffic is bad, the policemen could be constrained to do so in case of distress.
He added that the wife of the lawyer had earlier called him before Macaroni’s tweets and he promised her the matter would be resolved.
He however added that he had spoken with the Area Commander and the said lawyer had been released.
According to his tweet: “If it really happened as stated, that is really bad. I only hope they were not constrained to drive against traffic to quickly respond to a distress call (which is permissible). I spoke with the Area Commander. He has been released. We’ll dig further into what truly transpired.
“Before Macaroni’s tweet, the guy’s wife had called me. I even called my guys at the station to give Ridwan phone so that I will hear the matter directly from him.”



Share this on WhatsApp