Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Mr.Wale Mogaji the Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Services Commission (LAHASCOM) has disclosed his poise to seek redress through the court for having been summarily relieved of his appointment by the Speaker  Rt.Hon Mudashiru Obasa.

Mogaji maintained that his sack only reaffirmed the brutish mien of Obasa,whom he claimed has made no recourse to civil service rules in his operation of the commission.

He also faulted the promotion of Mr Olalekan Onafeko a GL-15 officer as Clerk of the house as against the standard practice, given the fact that many of seniors are still in service.

In a statement signed by the embattled LAHASCOM boss on Thursday, Mogaji expressly availed all the issues he had with the Speaker’s questionable moves in the Commission and the state Assembly.

Mogaji said that”I heard through the news that the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly sack my appointment as Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Services Commission at the plenary today, 14th July 2022.

“It is very sad that our Democracy has been basterdise with the conduct of those who are supposed to ensure the rule of law and sanctity of justice.

“The Speaker without recourse to the Service rules has been operating the Commission like a Unit of the Assembly.

“Recently, he appointed Mr Onafeko on GL- 15 as Clerk of the House whereas,to be appointed as a clerk of the house ,you must be a full Director on GL-17.

“Also, today, he appointed another woman, Mrs Latona on GL-15 to be the secretary of the Commission,  you must also be a full Director on GL-17.

“This is just few of the unilateral action taken by the speaker, he obstruct the activities of the Commission and any attempt to advice on the need for due process he always saw it as an affront.

“However, l will remain steadfast and allow the law to take its course by going to court to seek redress and protect my integrity.” Mogaji Said.

The Speaker had announced Mogaji’s sack during Thursday plenary,having garnered a voice vote of lawmakers on the matter.

The lawmakers equally appointed Mrs. Folashade Raulat Latona as the new Secretary of the Commission.

Latona replaced Mrs. Esther Lambo, who retired recently.

The House also confirmed Barrister Olalekan Onafeko as the substantive Clerk of the House, while it elevated three other senior staff to the position of Deputy Clerks.

Those elevated include Mr. M. A. B Animashaun, Mr. A. B. Otun and
Mrs. Adenike Oshinowo.
Share this on WhatsApp