Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The PDP presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 general elections, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, on Sunday joined the people of Osun State, including other PDP leaders and governors, in celebrating the victory of Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP over incumbent Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the APC in the Saturday governorship election in Osun State.
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on his official twitter handle Atiku Abubakar @atiku wrote: “Light has come to Osun. Congratulations, Sen. @AAdeleke on a well-fought victory. Also, hearty congratulations to the @OfficialPDPNig family and all stakeholders who came together to make this possible.
The PDP presidential candidate further stated: Atiku Abubakar @atiku “Most importantly, congratulations to the great people of Osun State for proving that power indeed belongs to the people. -AA #OsunDecides #ImoleOsun”
PDP governors who include Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, and Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, joined former Vice-Presidential Atiku in congratulating Adeleke, the governor elect.
Former President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, was not left out of the celebration, the former KwaraS Tate governor shared a video where he was with Davido while INEC was collating the results.
The PDP celebration was expansive considering that the defeat of the APC governor was achieved in the home state of the presidential candidate of the All progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.
Adeleke in a tweet after his victory, declared: governor-elect said, “I have brought light to Osun State. #osundecided
 pic.twitter.com/vblIwFKVfO
— Ademola Adeleke (@AAdeleke_01)
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared Adeleke winner of  the election with 403,371 votes, and incumbent Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of the APC had 375,027 votes.
Adeleke won in 17 of the 30 local government areas (LGAs) in Osun State; Oyetola won in 13.
Residents of Osun State stormed the streets in high celebration after the announcement of the result by the INEC.
Share this on WhatsApp