Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





 
There are indications of fretting in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State after the defeat of the party in the Saturday governorship election in Osun State, the home state of the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The emerging panic may have triggered immediate mobilization and image building intervention by APC youths in Ikeja.
Thus, the Coalition of Ikeja Youths urgently organized  a 100,000 man-march in the state capital to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and project him as president of the federal republic of Nigeria; as well as Hon. James Abiodun Faleke, member, House of Representatives, representing Ikeja Federal constituency in the National  Assembly, in the buildup  to the 2023 general elections.
Spokesperson of  the Coalition of Ikeja Youths, Oni, in a statement highlighted that “members of the coalition on May 17, 2022, gathered at the Water Cress Hotel, Ikeja, to endorse Faleke for another term in office and announced that there will be a fitness walk within Ikeja metropolis, to express their solidarity and unfettered support and loyalty to their leaders, Asiwaju Tinubu, and Faleke.
He added that in series of meetings after the endorsement, the coalition resolved that “it is now clear that it is time to hit the streets of Lagos, first, to tell the whole world that we are fully behind the winning tickets of Tinubu/Shettima and Hon. Faleke.”
Oni noted that Tinubu is from Alausa Ward, Ikeja, of the APC, declaring that  “the youths have decided to take it upon themselves, the campaign, the awareness and publicity of this great leader, who has shown purposeful leadership coupled with dexterity and direction.”
Oni declared: “Asiwaju Tinubu have proven track records while he was Lagos governor; he is liberal, focused, and capable to lead Nigeria to greatness.
“On this note and even more, the youths of Ikeja in their large numbers are ready to give all in their capacity to ensure that he gets maximum support which turns to votes and ensure victory at the polls.”
Oni further stated: “on the other hand, Rt. Hon. James Abiodun Faleke have performed beyond expectations as a legislator representing Ikeja federal constituency. We have not had it this good, the Chairman, House Committee on Finance, has touched every part of human life endeavors ranging from education to health to ICT to road construction and rehabilitation and most importantly youth empowerments which has taken many young people off the streets of Ikeja and has now made them gainfully employed and are now financially independent.”
He further declared: “We are standing on the above premises and we will be having a fitness walk to show that we believe in the leadership of Asiwaju Tinubu as President of federal republic of Nigeria and Rt. Hon. Faleke to continue his good works as our representatives.
“We are calling on all youth groups within and outside Ikeja Federal Constituency to join us in this project, make it a reality and be part of history making.”
Oni, however, stated that the date of the Tinubu/Faleke will be announced in due time, urging participants to WATCH OUT!!!
















Share this on WhatsApp