Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The heightened insecurity in the country has become alarming as media outlets keep reporting unfortunate and ugly incidents in the country that exposes the level of insecurity. That being said, in the last 24 hours, three incidents have occurred within the country that uncovers the security challenges in the country. This article will look at them one after the other.
1. The attack on Kuje prison in Abuja by terrorists.
According to the report by Vanguard Newspaper, a high-caliber bomb had first gone off at about 10:25 pm followed by a second and third blast as well as sporadic gunshots that residents into panic mode.This attack on Kuje prison exposes how insecure a government facility has become and if these unidentified gunmen succeed in releasing prisoners from the prison, it will definitely be detrimental to the security of lives and property.
2. The killing of ACP Aminu Umar Dayi
Emerging reports in the last 24 hours have it that bandits ambushed and killed an Assistant Commissioner of Police by the name Aminu Umar Dayi, who was in charge of Dutsinma Area Command in Katsina in a fierce gun duel on Tuesday.
 Late ACP Aminu Umar
The report revealed that the late ACP Aminu Umar led his team on their usual clearance operation that led to the death of one of the commanders of the bandits and in retaliation, the bandits numbering over 300 ambushed his team and the gallant officer lost his life in the gun battle.
This report also exposes the level of insecurity in the country if bandits could have the courage to confront gallant officers as a form of retaliation.
3. The attack on President Buhari’s advance convoy team in Katsina.
The presidential aide on media and publicity has released a statement confirming the attack on the advance team of President Buhari’s convoy in Katsina State. Narrating the incident, Garba Shehu revealed that the attackers opened fire on the presidential convoy from ambush positions but were repelled by the gallant security escort.
For me, this attack on President Buhari’s convoy left me dumbfounded and I began to wonder the kind of courage these gunmen had for them to attack the advance convoy of the number one citizen of the country. This attack exposes how insecure the country and the common Nigerian have become because if the President’s convoy could be attacked despite the huge security details attached to his advance convoy team, then what is the fate of the common Nigerian that moves around without any security detail?


Share this on WhatsApp