Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveSeveral Nigerian celebrities have congratulated and sent their best wishes to Nollywood actress Funke Akindele following her confirmation as the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) deputy governorship candidate in Lagos State for the 2023 general elections.
Tuesday, Akindele revealed that she is the deputy governor for Olajide Adediran, a.k.a. Jandor, the PDP candidate for governor of Lagos State, in a video posted on her Instagram page.
“I am well aware of the toll that this assignment will take on my flourishing career, which I now have to put on hold.
Personal sacrifice is significant. I’ve decided that no sacrifice is too great for the actualization of the urgent mission to rescue our people and our dear state.
“I saw it as an opportunity to help liberate and improve the wellbeing of our people, particularly the deprived youth, women, and the girl-child.
“My decision is not just to accept this huge responsibility but to also work tirelessly and complement Jandor’s burning desire to see our dear Lagos live up to its full potential,” she said.
Some Nollywood celebrities in the comment section of Akindele’s post congratulated and celebrated her.
Veteran actress, Joke Silva, wrote, “Well DONE Girl.”
Also, Dakore Egbuson, said, “Congratulations my sister. May God grant you wisdom in this new endeavor”
Similarly, actress Juliet Ibrahim, wrote, “Queen Congratulations. #WomenLeaders #WomenInPolitics.”
Veteran actress, Shan George, also took to the comment section, saying, “I find this truly awesome, the joy I feel right now is making my eyes teary. Yes, I Believe.”
Popular digital creator, Eni Adeoluwa, wrote, “Women in politics towards representation and empowerment. Well done, Queen!♥️.”
A former Big Brother Naija housemate, Teddy A, wrote, “Congratulations mama♥️.”
Another actress, Yetunde Bakare, wrote, “The train has finally set off, God is fully involved and it will surely end in praise. Congratulations my womanly.”
Actor Okikiola Bakare also said, “It is time.”
Share this on WhatsApp