Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Pro-abortion and pro-life agitators clashed in the United States (U.S.) as the enforcement of the abortion law as certified by the Supreme Court commenced on Thursday. Efforts of many groups to block the anti-abortion law failed in the U.S. as the Supreme Court upheld the law prohibiting abortion.
Attorney Rob McDuff, representing the Jackson Women’s Health Organization, had argued on behalf of the State’s only abortion clinic, for a lawsuit filed before Special Chancellor Debbra K. Halford, right, in Hinds County Chancery Court, Tuesday, July 5, 2022, in Jackson, Mississippi, to remain open by blocking a law that would ban most abortions in the state. However, the U.S. Supreme Court on June 24, overruled Roe v. Wade, abrogating constitutional protections for abortion.
A judge on Tuesday turned down the abortion clinic’s attempt to temporarily block the law that would ban most abortions.
The clinic decried that eth move by Mississippi to ban abortions before six months would affect women in the state.
Attorney for the Jackson Women’s Health Organization, Rob McDuff, had argued: “Fordice specifically noted that at the time the Mississippi Constitution was adopted, abortion was legal until quickening some four to five months in pregnancy.
“So, the status quo that we see and that we ask you to maintain is the status quo that has existed in the state of Mississippi, except for a very small period of time. And that status quo is required to prevent the irreparable harm that would come from the enforcement of an unconstitutional law.”
In the Magnolia State Officials insisted that the law was passed in 2007 and it was supported by members of both parties. It was highlighted that under the law, abortions would be illegal except in case of rape or incest, including cases when giving birth would endanger the mother.
The law prescribes that those who perform abortion outside those specified circumstances could risk about 10 years imprisonment if they are caught. Jackson Women’s Health Organization protested that the law is rigid, arguing that “the state is wielding its power to force residents to have babies against their will.”
The enforcement of the law is expected to commence on Thursday.
It was gathered that other southern states are trying to set their abortion restrictions in place with Florida’s 15-week-ban being blocked Tuesday but was quickly reinstated.
Louisiana’s attorney general is trying to dissolve a block on the state’s abortion ban, which is currently being challenged in state courts. These states and others have vowed to establish strong laws that protect the sanctity of life.
See full list of states in U.S. where abortion is now banned in post-Roe America.
The Supreme Court has overturned Roe v. Wade, and states across the U.S. are now moving rapidly to enforce the strictest pro-life laws in generations, sending Democrats and the abortion industry scrambling to keep abortion legal on demand wherever they can.
As of Wednesday, laws in at least nine states are in effect criminalizing abortion throughout pregnancy with virtually no exemptions. Several other states have sharply restricted the murder of unborn children within their borders, and 10 or more are set to enforce bans in the coming days and weeks following the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization on June 24.
A Mississippi judge declined to block the state’s trigger law banning abortion throughout pregnancy, which comes into effect on Thursday.
Florida’s 15-week ban is in effect after Gov. Ron DeSantis appealed an order that briefly blocked it.
A Kentucky judge said on Wednesday that he will leave in place an order blocking a near-total abortion ban in the state until at least July 18.
46 abortion clinics across the country have closed since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.
Check the guide below for comprehensive information about where each state currently stands on abortion in post-Roe America.
States where abortion bans have taken effect Dobbs’ impact
Abortion is now virtually illegal or significantly restricted in at least 10 states, many of which have implemented what are known as “trigger” laws designed to take effect immediately upon the reversal of Roe v. Wade and criminalize abortion throughout pregnancy.
Clinics shuttering: The bans are a devastating blow to the abortion industry: Since June 24, clinics have ceased abortions in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Abortions initially stopped in Utah, Kentucky, and Louisiana but have resumed to varying extents due to recent, temporary court orders.
Share this on WhatsApp