Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Old Students Association of Stella Maris College (SMC), Okitipupa in Ondo State, has expended over N32 million on renovation of dilapidated infrastructures and purchase of laboratory equipment in the school.
Mr Desmond Durojaye, the Technical Director of the project tagged “SMC Revamp Group” gave disclosed this on Tuesday in Okitipupa at the sent-forth and retirement ceremony of the principal of the school, Mr Simeon Akindutire.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the group had since 2021 inaugurated 19 renovated classrooms with complete re-roofing, painting, procurement of sets of furniture and laboratory equipment.
Also provided by the alumni association is befitting gate and security house among others Durojaiye said that old students of the school in different countries of the world reconnected on social media to form the Revamp Group last year, contributed money and swung into action to rehabilitate the school.
He further said that project undertaken by the alumni association would not have possible without the support and selfless service of the outgoing principal.
The technical director added that the projects had improved academic performance of students in the school.
“Akintudire selfless service, dedication and sincerity is worthy of emulation and his cordial relationship with us have brought about tremendous infrastructural and educational development.
“We have spent over N32 million on renovations of infrastructure, purchase of equipment and others in this school during the two year tenure of Akindutire.
“We will indeed miss him, but pray that God infinite mercies and favour will see him through,” Durojaiye said.
Chief Samuel Adetuyi, the National President, SMC Old Students Association commended the outgoing principal for putting all human and financial resources together to ensure he left the school better than he met it.
In his remarks, Akindutire appreciated God for wisdom and strength to accomplish all that he did during his tenure as principal.
He also thanked the teachers and students of the school for their cooperation, which according to him, enabled him make the mark for the two years he was principal of the school.
Akintudire also thanked the old students for giving their unflinching support to the development of the school beyond his expectation.
The outgoing principal said that the adding that old students by their projects had restored the glory and raised the standard of the school in Okitipupa LGA and the state.
NAN reports that the old students presented Akintudire N100,000, the Revamp Group gave him a 42 inch LG LED television while the staff of the school gifted the retired principal a 3.8 KVA Fireman generator.
Share this on WhatsApp