Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The leadership of the Lagos State House of Assembly, headed by the  Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has kicked-off a 3-day capacity training session, geared towards sharpening of the skills and competences of staffers.

 The four batches workshop schedule was purposely designed for Assembly’s member of Staff to prepare them for public policy, change management and to aid its sustainability among others.

According to the address of the Clerk of the House, Barr. Olalekan Onafeko, read by Mrs. Kafayat Adesanya, Head, Learning and Development, stated that the theme of the Training is “Public Policy, Change Management, Sustainability of Reforms, and Building Resilient Management and Staff for Impact”.

He noted that: “Human capital development in Lagos State House of Assembly is a continuous drive that has assisted it in achieving its set goals and objectives.

“Training and retraining of legislators and members of staff are sacrosanct as evidenced by productivity”.
“The essence of the training includes: deepening participants understanding of essentials of public policy analysis and management rudiments; acknowledging and understanding the need for sustainability of reform of the Lagos State House of Assembly.

 “Enumerating the need for communication, relationship trust and team work in building resilient staff for impact; equipping participants with relevant skills that will improve their performances and efficiency”.

The Clerk however, repose his confidence in the consultant, Messers Hybitel Limited that the firm would perform better than expected as it is reputable and has established itself with the Assembly.

He however, implored members of  staff to make use of the opportunity offered through the workshop and ensure full participation, which must be reflected positively in their work disposition and relationship with other members of the organisation while wishing them a successful and fulfilling workshop.

In her contribution at the training session, the Secretary to the Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission (LAHASCOM), Mrs. Folashade Latona, laid emphasis on the theme of the workshop which she said was carefully selected considering the situation of public policies in the polity of the country and particularly in Lagos State.


Share this on WhatsApp