1270092167
kate_sept2004/Getty Images
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
When you have a stroke, your brain isn’t getting the blood it needs. You need treatment right away to lower your chances of brain damage, disability, or even death.
Strokes can affect people of all ages, but more than one-third of those hospitalized are under 65. High cholesterol, high blood pressure and smoking are major risk factors.
There are warning signs of a stroke long before it happens. Some of these signs can occur hours, days and sometimes weeks in advance. Here are seven warning signs.
1)    Face drooping
2)    Arm Weakness
3)    Difficulty speaking
4)    Severe headaches
5)    Vision changes
6)    Confusion
7)    Balance problems
Some of these symptoms, such as dizziness, can be related to other conditions. For example, vertigo can cause dizziness. However, strokes require immediate medical attention, so it’s better to err on the side of caution and seek medical attention if you suspect you or a loved one are having a stroke.
The exact treatment for a stroke depends on what type of stroke you had, but the end goal of any treatment is to restore proper blood flow to the brain.
If you have an ischemic stroke, which is one of the most common types of strokes, treatment may involve an intravenous (IV) injection of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) or alteplase. The tPA or alteplase breaks up the blood clot that blocks blood flow to your brain.
Other potential emergency treatments for ischemic strokes that you might receive at the hospital include:
On the other hand, if you have a hemorrhagic stroke, you may receive medications and even surgery to lower the pressure in your brain.
Unfortunately, if you’ve already had a stroke, your risk of having another stroke increases. About 25% of stroke survivors have another stroke within five years. Even if you receive emergency treatments or surgeries, you may still benefit from additional treatment such as a carotid endarterectomy or angioplasty and stents to prevent future strokes from occurring.
One of the best things you can do to prevent a stroke is to treat any underlying conditions heart disease, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes that increase your risk of having a stroke.

Share this on WhatsApp