Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Ivana Trump, Donald Trump’s first wife and the mother of three of his children, has died aged 73.
Trump in a post on social media platform Truth Social, described Ivana as a wonderful, beautiful, and amazing woman, who led a great and inspirational life.
Ms Trump, who was born in what is now the Czech Republic, married the former president in 1977. They divorced 15 years later in 1992.
They had three children together – Donald Jr, Ivanka and Eric Trump.
According to the New York Times, police are investigating the cause of death, which “appeared to be accidental”.
The pair were notable public figures in New York in the 1980s and 1990s, and their split was the subject of intense public interest.
READ ALSO: What Donald Trump said after Elon Musk bought Twitter
After their separation, Ms Trump went on to launch her own lines of beauty products, clothing and jewellery.
She took credit for bringing up their children in her 2017 memoir Raising Trump, saying she “made the decisions about their education, activities, travel, child care, and allowances” until college.
In the book, she added that her relationship with Mr Trump had improved since their divorce, and said she spoke to him about once a week.
The Trump family lauded her in a statement as “a force in business, a world-class athlete, a radiant beauty, and caring mother and friend”.
“Ivana Trump was a survivor. She fled from communism and embraced this country,” the statement added. “She taught her children about grit and toughness, compassion and determination.”
Mr Trump was her second husband. Her first, Alfred Winklmayr, was an Austrian ski instructor and friend who she reportedly married in order to obtain Austrian citizenship.
Over the course of their marriage, Ms Trump held several roles within the Trump Organization, including as manager of the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan.
But Mr Trump reportedly locked her out of her office at the hotel in 1990 as they sparred over four pre-nuptial agreements.
Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani wrote on Twitter that Ms Trump was “a truly talented, creative and beautiful person”, who had “contributed greatly” to his city.

Share this on WhatsApp