Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

As part of mobilization for the Atiku Abubakar/Ifeanyi Okowa 2023 presidential ticket, a Christian-political organisation, the Door-To-Door Grassroot Christian Campaign for Atiku, has kicked off a door to door campaign in Bayelsa State.
According to the group, the campaign is to sell the candidature of the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa as well as the party’s candidates in the national and state assembly elections to Bayelsa electorate.
The National Coordinator of the organisation, Bishop Stanley Joseph, disclosed this while inaugurating the state and local government executives of the organisation.
Bishop Joseph charged members of the group to work assiduously towards the victory of Atiku Abubakar and the PDP in the state.
READ ALSO: Presidency 2023: Atiku gives insight on growing ailing economy
He said Nigeria has come to the crossroads and they are campaigning for Atiku because the “APC took Nigeria to Egypt, but the Atiku/Okowa ticket will bring Nigeria to the Promised Land. Nigeria has come to another crossroad again, looking for a leader that will take her to her promised land”.
“APC took us back to Egypt, God in his infinite mercy, has heard the cry of his people and has decided to bring His Excellency, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to take us to the promised land. If not for the demise of Former President Yar’Adua, by now Nigeria would have been like Dubai.”
He later inaugurated the Bayelsa chapter of the Door2Door Grassroot Christian Campaign for Atiku with Hon. Richard Otodo as State Co-Ordinator, Boloumiebi Soro, Deputy State Coordinator and Alex Odoroh as Secretary. Also appointed is Elder Christopher Abarowei as Publicity Secretary.
Others appointed as Local government Coordinators are Donald Elliot (Brass), Karina Spiff (Nembe), Sandra Obeba (Ogbia), Kenny Aro (Kolokuma/Opokuma), Clarkson Orukumowei (Sagbama), Osomowo Otuzi (Yenagoa), Churchill Rapheal (Southern Ijaw) and Francis Ebiwaribo (Ekeremor).
Share this on WhatsApp