Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Acting Governor Philip Shaibu of Edo State has ordered everyone residing in the forest in the state to vacate within 10 days. Acting Governor Shaibu also ordered the recruitment of hunters, vigilante operatives to complement the conventional security agencies which include the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Police, and ot5hers, to rid the state of kidnappers, armed robbers, and killers in the state.
At a State Executive Council meeting in Benin City, the state government resolved that everybody currently residing in any forest in Edo State in the guise of camping should vacate such areas with immediate effect.
The acting Governor mandated all acting Local Government Council heads to use all the security apparatus, including the police, army, Vigilante groups, hunters, and others to forcefully remove any airing groups or individuals within the next 10 days.
The acting governor also ordered that Local Government Areas, as a matter of urgency, should recruit hunters and vigilante groups who understand the terrain in their areas to assist in enforcing the task of clearing the forests in the state.
The state government also directed that such volunteers should be placed on monthly stipends by all the Local Government Council for effective discharge of this onerous task.
The acting governor assured that the governor will provide the necessary logistics and equipment for the task. This, he said, includes weapons, ammunitions, and uniforms.
The governor further mandated that, henceforth, any traditional rulers and village heads who have collected money from any herdsmen, therefore, permitting any form of camping or grazing in any Edo State forest, should refund such money and ask the herdsmen to leave with immediate effect.
The state government in the resolution, declared: “after 10 days from today, traditional rulers and village heads will now be held responsible for any act of kidnapping or terrorism in their domain.
“To this end, recruitment of vigilante groups and hunters who will complement other security forces has commenced in earnest in all the local government areas of Edo State.
“That government more than ever before, is determined to reduce and possibly stamp out the waves of kidnappings and killings that have pervaded the entire State within the last few weeks. “Government also affirmed that it would deal decisively with any groups or individuals that will want to sabotage its efforts in this renewed vigour and determination to ensure safety of lives and properties of all law-abiding citizens in the state.”
Share this on WhatsApp