Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Aero Contractors has temporarily grounded operations due to rising costs, suspending “scheduled passenger services operations” in the country.
The management in a statement in Monday disclosed that the suspension of operations will take effect on Wednesday, explaining that the decision is “due to the impact of the challenging environment” on daily operations. The management, however, stated that certain internal activities will be sustained, and, therefore, excluded from the suspended activities.
The airline apologized to its customers for the inconvenience the suspension of operations would cause them.
According to the management of Aero Contractors, “This does not in any way affect the Maintenance activities of the Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO) otherwise known as AeroMRO, the Approved Training Organisation (ATO) also known as Aero Training School, the Helicopter and Charter Services operations.
“We sincerely apologise for any inconvenience caused to our esteemed customers and promise to return to service as soon as possible.”
Aero Contractors further explained: “This decision was carefully considered and taken due to the fact that most of our aircraft are currently undergoing Maintenance, resulting in our inability to offer a seamless and efficient service to our esteemed customers.
“We are working to bring these aircraft back to service in the next few weeks, so we can continue to offer our passengers the safe, efficient, and reliable services that Aero Contractors is known for, which is the hallmark of Aero Contractors Company of Nig. Ltd.
“The past few months have been very challenging for the aviation industry and the airline operators in particular. With the high cost of maintenance, skyrocketing fuel prices, inflation, and forex scarcity resulting in high foreign exchange rates; these are amongst the major components of airline operations.”
The airline assured:  “In the meantime, we are working assiduously to return to service as quickly as possible, and do assure our esteemed customers and stakeholders of our determination, that our short absence will not create any major void in the market, as we are coordinating with our business partners to ensure minimum discomfort to ticket holders.
“As members of Spring Alliance (a commercial alliance with member airlines providing mutual support in the area of operations), we are liaising with our partner airlines to minimise the impact on our esteemed customers. Our customer service team will be working to help affected esteemed customers reach their destinations.”
Share this on WhatsApp