L-R Mr. Akumefula Ojiji FCIS (Senior Manager, Operations) Dr. Adeyinka Hassan FCIS Council Member and Chairman of Capacity Building Committee , Mrs. Lynda Onefeli FCIS, Chairperson of Publicity and Advocacy Committee and Mr. Kayode Ketefe FCIS Head of Research all of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrations of Nigeria (ICSAN) during the press briefing for the 2022 programme of the Capacity Building Committee of the Institute recently in Lagos. 


        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN) has fixed Thursday, July 28 for its roundtable meeting on corporate governance with the theme, “The Corporate Governance Imperatives for Contemporary Financial Technology in Nigeria.”
Announcing this at a media parley at the weekend, Dr. Adeyinka Hassan FCIS, ICSAN’s council member and Chairman of Capacity Building Committee, said Corporate Governance Capacity Development is about helping members and non-members maximize their potentials in terms of available resources, skills and competencies.
He said industry experts like the Chairman of Access Bank Plc, Dr. Ajoritsedere Awosika; MD/CEO of Inlaks Ltd, Bukar Kyari; Senior Associate, Phillips Consulting, Paul Ayim and the Executive Director (Designate) Stanbic IBTC Trustees Ltd, Mrs. Eseoghene Nkadi will be speaking at the roundtable.
“Aside from these top executives, myself and President of ICSAN, Taiwo Owokalade will also be on ground to provide mentorship for participating members and non-members.”
READ ALSO: ICSAN proffers solution to rising insecurity, ASUU/FG face-off
Speaking on ICSAN’s collaborative initiatives to enhance capacity development of members, Dr. Hassan explained that the council has been engaging with government agencies and other related organisations sharing common interest, goals and objectives for the betterment of Nigeria.
“Part of our collaborative effort that has yielded the desired results include the training and certification of top executives of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria. More programmes are being planned in this regard for the betterment of the members and our country.
He said a good number of private universities have incorporated the Institute’s qualifying examinations into their curriculum. “This has helped in enhancing their employability and their capacity to deliver on the job. A lot of resources are being committed by the Institute at ensuring inclusiveness at all levels amongst our members.
Corroborating Dr. Hassan, Mrs. Lynda Onefeli FCIS, Chairperson of Publicity and Advocacy Committee said young practitioners are open to mentorship programmes and internship programmes that help them to build capacity and become more valuable in their respective practice area.
READ ALSO: ICSAN deepens corporate governance, unveils practice guide, stamp
“In our resolve to create more awareness for Corporate Governance and Capacity Building, we are taking the gospel of good Governance across Board to all tertiary institutions and even to the elementary level.
“We therefore encourage all and sundry to take the advantage of our upcoming round table event to network with practitioners and learn from the best. The Governance Roundtable programme will start from 11.am through the virtual mode,” she added.
Recall that the Institute on the 21st July 2022 inducted 344 Associates and 117 Graduates in a flamboyant ceremony commanding the attendance of the top echelon of the society from the public to the private sector.
 
Share this on WhatsApp