Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Nigerian Communications Commission has assured Orange Group of Nigeria’s robust policy and regulatory environment that provides a quality enabling environment for investors in the country’s telecom sector.
Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof. Umar Danbatta gave the assurance recently when a delegation from the Orange Middle East and Africa, an International telecom investor-operator visited him in his office in Abuja.
Earlier in his remarks, leader of the delegation, Mrs. Victoria Adefala said the International telecom investor-operator is fully determined to do all it takes to get a slice of the Nigerian market.
Adefala in his message said, “We are here to ensure steady investment for a long term. We also want to support the vision of the Commission in driving broadband penetration for a robust digital economy and leverage on local content development initiatives,” she said.
“The delegation, including Orange’s Africa Director of Regulatory Affairs, Mr. Jean Chalhoub, sought clarifications on several regulatory and policy issues that will engender the company’s speedy entry into the country.
READ ALSO: NCC to host telecom content expo, targets operators, others
Adefala said Nigeria is missing in Orange Group’s portfolio of combined networks of over 140 million subscribers across 18 countries of its operations. “The large market potentials buoyed by the huge population, impressive Gross Domestic product (GDP) figure, proximity to our operations in the neighbouring African countries, as well as the appreciable friendly operating environment are great motivators for our expansion plan into the Nigerian telecom market”.
NCC’s chief, Danbatta who welcomed the Group’s quest to invest in Nigeria, said the Commission has also taken several other regulatory steps aimed at improving the operational environment such as the ongoing collaboration with Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF) to reduce Right of Way (RoW) charges on telecom infrastructure deployments; signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with various government and institutional stakeholders across the country; developed guidelines and regulations to promote colocation of infrastructure; and upheld a fair competitive operating environment, among others.
“We welcome more investments into the Nigerian telecom sector. We have enabling laws and regulations that help us to engender a highly competitive telecom market that benefits both the service providers and the consumers. The NCC is here to ensure we support our licensees to thrive while also ensuring that they comply with Quality of Service (QoS) Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) set by the Commission because Nigerians will patronise an operator that provides them with affordable services at highest quality,” he said.
Danbatta who hosted the delegation with the two Executive Commissioners of the Commission, Engr. Ubale Maska (Technical Standards) and Barrister Adeleke Adewolu (Stakeholder Management), and some directors, said the successful auction of the 5G spectrum is a clear indication of investor confidence in the country, and that investment opportunities are available in voice, data, upstream and downstream of the sectors with certainty on investment returns.
 
Share this on WhatsApp