Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Reports reaching National Daily reveal that Manchester United forward Cristiano Ronaldo has finally spoken since he informed the club’s hierarchy about his desire to leave Old Trafford this summer.
The Portugal international was believed to have left United’s boss Erik ten Hag in shock last month when he advised the Dutchman and the club’s hierarchy to consider offers for him.
Ten Hag would have been definitely stunned with Ronaldo’s unexpected demand clearly because the 37-year-old was believed to have given the Dutchman his acceptance after his appointment in April as the five-time Ballon d’Or Award winner was believed to be enthused about working with the former Ajax boss and didn’t give any indication that he wanted to leave Old Trafford.
However, it is believed that the Portuguese sudden decision was due to his desire to be actively involved with Champions League football in the coming season after it became evident to him that United will not qualify for the competition.
National Daily had previously reported that the former Juventus star was absent during United’s pre-season tour of Thailand and Australia, citing ‘family reasons’ for his absence while remaining in Portugal.
And Ronaldo was reported to have finally made a return to Carrington on Tuesday in company of his agent Jorge Mendes as the pair held talks with Ten Hag and the board over his situation.
National Daily can confirm that Ronaldo had during their meeting reiterated his desire to leave despite his former boss and mentor Sir Alex Ferguson intervening in a desperate bid to keep the Portuguese striker.
Meanwhile, Ronaldo has finally broken his silence as he hit out at the ‘lies’ by responding to an Instagram account that cited the report National Daily can confirm.
‘Impossible not to talk about me one day,’ said Ronaldo.
‘Otherwise the press makes no money. You know that if you don’t lie you can’t get people’s attention. Keep going that one day you get some news right ‘.
Despite his return to training, it is not clear whether Ronaldo will participate in either of United’s friendlies this weekend.
United take on Atletico Madrid in Oslo on Saturday, before hosting Rayo Vallecano at Old Trafford on Sunday.
Ronaldo is said to be around four weeks behind his team-mates in terms of preparation for the new season and he desperately needs minutes.
 
Share this on WhatsApp