Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
More revelations are being made on the terrorist’s attack at the Kuje prisons on Tuesday. The media aide of the renowned Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, Tukur Mamu, has revealed that he shared intelligence with the officials of the Correctional Centre, Kuje, on the planned attack of the facilities by ISWAP but they failed to act on the information.
Tukur Mamu in a statement on Thursday, disclosed that he shared intelligence with security agencies and a committee that was constituted by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor. He added that the attack of the Kuje Correctional Centre was executed and coordinated by the same group that attacked the Abuja-Kaduna bound train.
Gumi’s Aide in the statement declared: “On the tendency and threat to attack targets and other facilities of interest like the Kuje Correctional Centre attacks I have shared that intelligence with the security agencies and the committee that was constituted by CDS Gen. Lucky Irabor.
“I can confirm without a doubt that the Kuje Correctional Centre attack was executed and coordinated by the same group that attacked the Abuja-Kaduna bound train because they gave indications of imminent attacks to that effect which I shared.”
Tukur Mamu added: “For the records, they requested for the release of 51 of their members. But through the power of dialogue and engagement, I was able to singlehandedly scale that number to only 10 and communicated with audio backing the development to the relevant authorities.
“There was an unnecessary delay on giving them even precise feedback by the government and now they have not only succeeded in carrying out another successful attack that indicts the nature of our intelligence and capacity to respond promptly but has also succeeded in releasing dozens of their members which would have been averted if the action has been taken to give them only 10 and secure the release of the train victims.
“In all this risky, painful, and frustrating engagement which the government is yet to acknowledge and appreciate, I have more than 100 documented audios that I shared with the relevant authorities. For the purpose of this important press release and to authenticate my claims, I will also share four of the latest audios.” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp