Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Centre for Human and Socio-economic Rights (CHSR) and Coalition of Democratic Advancement (CODAV) has urged the Nigeria Bar Association and the Nigeria Judicial Council to intervene and forestall judicial rascality allegedly displayed by the Chief Judge of Akwa ibom State Chief Justice Ekaete.

In a statement issued on Friday by Comrade Alex Omotehinse President CHSR and P. R. O CODAV the group faulted Chief Justice Ekaete’s unconstitutional act in the precincts of the court, where a human rights lawyer Barrister Inibehe Effiong was treated like a criminal for just raising a cursory view on an untoward development.

“Our attention has been drawn to the recent action of the Chief Judge of Akwa ibom State Justice Ekaete, who slammed a month conviction on a notable human rights lawyer Barr. Inibehe Effiong.

“The state seating chief Judge proclamation is unconstitutional, unfair, unethical, undemocratic and cannot stand test of time in the face of law.

“Based on information gathered, Barr Effiong’s offence was because he stood as a defending counsel to one Mr. Leo Ekpenyong in the libel suit filed by Governor Udom Emmanuel before the Chief judge.

“The activist lawyer drew the attention of the court to a situation where some armed policemen were displaying guns in the court room.

“Barr. Inibehe Effiong in a viral video on Wednesday, July 27, 2022 explained in detail what transpire in the courtroom that led to his persecution by the chief judge for one-month imprisonment at Uyo correctional facility in Akwa Ibom State.

“In the viral video Barrister Inibehe Effiong, explain how he informed the court that he was not feeling comfortable and safe having two armed mobile policemen seated inside the courtroom, that it was strange and that he felt unsafe.

“He then pleaded with the Judge to excuse the armed policemen from the courtroom but instead the Chief Judge ordered Barrister Inibehe Effiong to step out of the Bar and ordered the policemen to take him to Uyo prison, that he has been sentenced for one month imprisonment.

“It was gathered that counsels present in the court room swiftly appealed on behalf of Bar. Inibehe Effiong but was vehemently turned down by the Chief Judge,who insisted that his case has been judged.

“We also learnt that there has been a pending motion for the Judge to disqualify and recuse himself from the case on grounds of bias or likelihood of bias in the same suit.

“The CHSR & CODAV, hereby, condemned Justice Ekaete action as shameful and an embarrassment to the  Nigeria’s judicial institution for denying Barr. Effiong his fundamental human right of fair hearing.

“The CHSR and CODAV therefore calls on chief Justice of Nigeria,  the Nigeria Bar Association and the Nigeria Judicial Council to quickly as a matter of urgency intervene on justice Ekaete act of  judicial rascality else we won’t hesitate to mobilize Nigerians on a serious protest on the injustice against one of our own.”  The Group said.


Share this on WhatsApp