Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

 The Fulani socio-cultural group, Kulen Allah Cattle Rearers Association of Nigeria, (KACRAN) has bragged about having millions of herders with PVCs at hand and are ready to cast their votes for a candidate that cares about their interests and general survival.
KACRAN, in a statement by its National President, Khalil Mohd Bello, vowed to help any presidential candidate whose policies and programmes include livestock development, to clinch power in the 2023 election.
Khalil said their members always cast votes en bloc and would vote for any candidate and party that will fully consider them in policy formulation and implementation.
According to the association, despite herders’ significant contributions to the economic growth of the country and the provision of nutritional food to Nigerians, they were also ignored when it came to policy and program formulations.
READ ALSO: Herdsmen struck in Gov. Ortom’s Local Govt., kill 15
The statement read: “Most politicians, with the exception of very few States, are neither mindful nor concerned with the vital role played by the livestock sector towards creating millions of job opportunities for our youths and people whose livelihood fully depends on pastoral occupation.
“KACRAN noticed that it is only through the creation of the Federal Ministry of Animal resources that herders’ problems and daily pressing needs related to water points or animal feed during the dry period will be adequately taken care of.
“The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is fully charged with numerous responsibilities that cannot allow it to fully incorporate livestock development in its yearly or daily programs, hence necessitating our appeal for the creation of a special Ministry for Animal Resources.
READ ALSO: Killer Fulani Herdsmen may soon become indigenes of Abia, Anambra, Delta and other Southern states
“Most of the money given to the said Ministry is always spent on the development of arable farming to the detriments of the Fisheries and livestock sectors.
“We want our politicians to note that we have millions of herders who have their PVCs at hand and are ready to cast them to candidates of their choice, more especially the ones who they noticed care about their interest and general survival.
“KACRAN also wants to draw the attention of our presidential and gubernatorial candidates that pastoralists’ block votes, especially in the Northern part of this country or at a highly competitive presidential level, will help one to clinch power.
“We KACRAN members always cast our votes en bloc, because we normally don’t want to divide our votes, but always put them based on the person or party we strongly believe will fully consider us in policy formulation and implementation.”
Share this on WhatsApp