Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
A mobilization group of the Atiku campaign, Atiku Amalgamated Support Group, has berated a renowned legal practitioner, Ebun Adegboruwa, over discrediting the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, in the 2023 presidential race.
The Director General of the Atiku Amalgamated Support Group, Oladimeji Fabiyi, in a statement on Friday declared: “It is with a very high sense of disappointment that I read the statement of Barrister Ebun Adegboruwa on the 2023 presidential election as it relates to the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar.
“This response, in all honesty, is in reference to the lawyer. To start with, that statement and the elements of his arguments is beneath the reputation of an attorney and especially of one who goes about in the name of a constitutional lawyer.”
Fabiyi stated that, thus, it will be good if the lawyer can face his business as an attorney and stop taking cheap briefs from discredited politicians on political hatchet jobs.
He said that it would have been more honourable for Adegboruwa to use the constitution of Nigeria as the ground norm of his arguments instead of leaning on emotional discharge to query the circumstances in which Atiku Abubakar is contesting the 2023 presidential election. “As far as the law is concerned, (which should be Adegboruwa’s business) Atiku is qualified to vie for the position of President in the upcoming election,” Fabiyi declared.
The statement further read:
“Adegboruwa and his co-travelers hiding under the puerile stance of denunciating Atiku’s 2023 bid should tell us what has changed in the matrix of politics between 2019 and 2023 when Atiku made his first attempt to succeed a ‘fellow Fulani.’ Is the Buhari of 2019 not the same as 2023? Why make a noise about Atiku being Fulani now if they didn’t make a similar noise in 2019. The only answer to the puzzle is that politicians, the likes of who are Adegboruwa’s paymasters, are afraid that Atiku is the candidate to beat in the 2023 election, hence their resort to blackmail and emotional discharge.
“As a matter of fact, the threat to our politics and unity as a country is the likes of Adegboruwa who use religion and ethnicity as cancel instruments in a democracy. Their methods and logic are not just undemocratic and destabilizing, but largely illegal. It’s a shame that a lawyer would dig that low!
 “For the purposes of setting the record straight, Atiku’s tenure as Vice President of Nigeria remains second to none since the beginning of this republic in 1999. The administration with President Olusegun Obasanjo remains on record as the most innovative government, which brought forth a number of reforms that set the pace for modern and progressive governance in Nigeria. Thousands of Adegboruwas cannot change the verdict of history on Atiku’s contribution to the reforms in telecommunications sector, pension reforms, health insurance scheme, banking sector reforms, among other public-spirited policies.
“If some politicians want to be selective with the truth, the people of Nigeria know that Atiku Abubakar is a unifier and that his politics is devoid of violence and thuggery. Atiku has spent the past 30 years as a politician of note who has positively contributed to the growth of democratic governance in Nigeria even at personal risk in many instances.
“Fortunately, Ebun Adegboruwa is a lawyer and had it been that he faced his law business with the seriousness that it deserves, he would have known better about Atiku’s legal victories in litigation that have strengthened the body of constitutionalism in Nigeria’s practice of democratic governance. Again, it is good to advise Ebun, for his own sake, to face his respectable law business instead of the low-paying job of a political hitman.
“Finally, it is necessary to say it again, that Nigerians should be wary of the comments by some self-appointed human rights activists. Many of them are paid agents of discredited politicians who see politics as an entitlement business and have a bullion van of ill-gotten wealth to pay for character assassination of their formidable opponents. Their antics and the dirty jobs that their paid agents do on their behalf is the reason why Nigerians should get their PVCs and put an end to the current hardship that they have unleashed on the people of this country.”
Share this on WhatsApp