Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Lagos State House of Assembly has disclosed that it not possible to pass any law secretly anywhere in the world.

The Assembly  said that claiming secret passage of Sharia Law in the state to allegedly curry Northern support for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the APC Presidential Candidates is a malicious and unfounded report which should be discountenanced.

Hon. Setonji David Chairman, Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Information, Security and Strategy in a statement issued in swift reaction to the report cited on some social media platforms, disclosed that it is pertinent to correct the erroneous report, because such act is an anti-legislature practice.



Sentonji said that: “The attention of the Lagos State House of Assembly has been drawn to a malicious and unfounded report making the rounds on social media that the assembly has secretly passed a sharia law in a deal to get Northern support for  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the APC Presidential Candidate.

“We would not have dignified the writer of this hate speech with our response but in order to set the record straight, we want to state that this is a mere figment of the imagination of the writer and a total lie from the pit of hell.

“No informed person should believe this lies against the Assembly that is above the common standard of excellence. The news is far from the reality.

“Some people are just mischievous. Spreading all sorts of untrue stuff. Is it possible to pass a law under cover?

” The process of law making is universal and very open. You cannot pass a law without subjecting it to public hearing in Lagos State.

“We urged the residents of the state and Nigerians as a whole to take the peddlers of this unfounded report  as illiterate, uninformed, and uneducated people who needed to be schooled about law making process.

“Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a fast selling products across the country and does not need any law from the state to further endear him to all Nigerians and by the Special Grace of God, the Jagaban would emerge winner of the 2023 Presidential election to the shame of the purveyors of this hate news.” Setonji reiterated.




Share this on WhatsApp