Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, (HURIWA) on Tuesday, slammed the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), for its leadership failure in securing lives and property in the country.
HURIWA said it is tragic that the National Assembly is so compromised and pocketed by President Muhammadu Buhari to the extent that the legislature is playing the ostrich whilst the implosion and collapse of Nigeria becomes imminent.
HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, in a statement, said terrorist attacks in the country’s seat of power, the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, show that Nigeria’s security architecture has been completely sabotaged.
READ ALSO: HURIWA raises alarm as Army court-martialled 500 soldiers in 3 years
The Rights group said it is unimaginable that President Muhammadu Buhari has jetted off to Liberian capital to lecture them on security when infact the federal capital of the nation he governs is under immense threats by armed terrorists.
The group said the Buhari government has failed woefully in its cardinal responsibility to protect the people as shown by attacks in the FCT under his watch.
HURIWA has therefore asked President Muhammadu Buhari to set up a national guard and also give arms and ammunition to adults without criminal records to defend the nation unless there is truth in the rumour about a deal to hand over Nigeria to Islamists.
“It is shocking and shameful that terrorists have overrun the country’s seat of power whilst Nigeria’s President, a former military major general, watches on,” HURIWA’s Onwubiko lamented.
HURIWA said there is no basis for the National Security Adviser that has failed to be kept in office and also the entire internal security institutions headed by Fulanis have sold out and sabotaged the national security interests of Nigeria.
READ ALSO: Murder of wedding guests in Imo very unfortunate, says HURIWA
The captain and the two soldiers were attached to the 7 Guards Brigade of the Nigerian Army but were reportedly ambushed after they visited the Nigeria Law School in Bwari following a hint that terrorist had mobilised to attack the school.
Commenting on the sad development, HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “Nigerians are perturbed that terrorists have cowered security forces and now operate freely unchallenged. This is a gross failure of the regime of President Muhammadu Buhari.
“The show of shame in the name of breaches of security in Abuja by terrorists, their battles Guard Brigades which is the elite military wing of the Armed forces, and the apprehension that has engulfed schools in the FCT are shocking to many.
“The Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces must wake up. Terrorists are overrunning the seat of power and even establishing cells. The President cannot afford to take a ‘I-don’t-care’ pose.
“The terrorists even threatened to abduct him and are gradually working out their threats by paralysing the security apparatus of the FCT. Buhari must fire all service chiefs, the National Security Adviser, the Defence Minister and other top chiefs under whose watch terrorists have overrun Nigeria like Afghanistan. These persons should be prosecuted for allegedly sabotaging national security.”
Share this on WhatsApp