Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The relief granted by the court in the U.S.  on the discovery requests in a lawsuit by the Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt and Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry last Tuesday requesting for documents and information from the National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and serving  of third party subpoenas on Twitter, Meta (Facebook’s parent company), Youtube, Instagram and LinkedIn last Wednesday had placed legal burden of the chief medical advisor to President Biden, director of the NIAID, mandating to provide any communications with social media platforms related to content modulation and/or misinformation, and to disclose all meetings with any social media platform related to the subject and to provide all communications with Mark Zuckerberg from January 1, 2020, to date.
Schmitt had in a statement disclosed that the court ordered Fauci to provide all communications with any social media platform on the Great Barrington Declaration; the authors and original signers of the Great Barrington Declaration; Dr. Jay Bhattacharya; Martin Kulldorff, Ph.D.; Dr. Aaron Kheriaty, Sunetra Gupta, Ph.D.; Dr. Scott Atlas; Alex Berenson; Peter Daszak, Ph.D.; Shi Zhengli, Ph.D.; the Wuhan Institute of Virology; EcoHealth Allaince; and/or any member of the so-called “Disinformation Dozen,” including CHD chairman and chief legal counsel Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.
The court further mandate White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre to  identify every officer, official, employee, staff member, personnel, contractor or any other person associated with the White House communications team who communicated or is communicating with any social media platform related to content modulation and/or misinformation — and to turn over those communications.
Jean-Pierre was directed to identify all persons who “engage[s] regularly with all social media platforms about steps that can be taken” to address misinformation on social media, which engagement “has continued, and … will continue,” as stated during an April 25 White House press briefing — and turn over all communications with any social media platform involved in such engagement.
The court also ordered the CDC to provide the names of every officer, official, employee, staff member, personnel, contractor or agent of CDC or any other federal official or agency who communicated or is communicating with any social media platform regarding content modulation and/or misinformation.
The CDC was also mandated to reveal close communications with any social media platform related to content modulation or misinformation, any meetings that took place with social media platforms related to content modulation and/or misinformation, and must identify all “members of our senior staff” and/or “members of our COVID-19 team” who are “in regular touch with … social media platforms,” as “Jennifer Psaki [former White House press secretary] stated at a White House press briefing on or around July 15, 2021.”
CDC must also disclose all “government experts” who are federal officers, officials, agents, employees, or contractors, who have “partnered with” Facebook or any other social media platform to address misinformation and/or content modulation, including all communications relating to such partnerships.
CDC must submit information and communications on the “so-called disinformation dozen,” Great Barrington Declaration, alternative news outlets and key experts and scientists who have spoken out against the government’s approach to treating COVID-19 or mandating face masks and lockdowns.
Share this on WhatsApp