Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Nigerian Communications Commission on Friday organised a sensitisation programme for residents of Oyo State on the protection of telecommunication infrastructure to enable digitization and seamless connectivity of all other socio-economic platforms.
The sensitisation programme tagged “village square dialogue” which was held at Mapo Hall, Ibadan, Oyo State had participants consisting of community leaders, market women, youths, religion groups, civil servants, social groups, security operatives, telecoms service providers among others drawn from different parts of the state.
Speaking on the importance of the dialogue, The Chairman, Board of Commissioners of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Professor Adeolu Akande, explained that the program was organized to discuss the protection of telecoms infrastructure and preserve the capacity of these infrastructure to provide life-supporting services to the people.
He noted that telecoms infrastructure are critical to modern existence, and Nigerians must be ready to tackle anything that affects their seamless operation.
READ ALSO: NCC to host telecom content expo, targets operators, others
He lamented the rate of vandalization and stealing of telecommunication infrastructure in the country.
“I therefore urge you all to please see telecoms infrastructure as your own, protect them as communal property and report perpetrators to the appropriate authorities,” he said.
“The choice of Ibadan is in recognition of its strategic role in the country. Telecommunication infrastructure is important and we are to ensure that we guard them against vandals and those who are stealing the equipment.
“All acts such as destruction, vandalisation and stealing of telecommunication infrastructure must be checked and tackled.
“We must see telecommunication infrastructure as our own. Support us to provide better service for the people in Ibadan, Oyo state and Nigeria. It is unfortunate that some people are damaging the telecommunication infrastructure.
“Police cannot be everywhere, if we see anyone damaging the infrastructure, we should report them and things will be better”.
Meanwhile, in his presentation titled, “Protection of telecommunication infrastructure for improved quality of service: The role of residents”, the NCC Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau, Efosa Idehen emphasized that everybody in the state has a role to play in the telecommunication industry because when things are happening to the telecom infrastructure, there is nothing you can do.
At the event were the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Lekan Balogun, who was represented by Chief Ademola Odunade, Chairman and Nigeria Lotteries Regulatory Commission (NLRC) Fatai Ibikunle.
 
Share this on WhatsApp