Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Peoples Democratic Party has reacted to Governor Nyesom Wike’s meeting with some governors of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State on Friday.
The main opposition party in its reaction expressed confidence that the Rivers State Governor would not dump the party ahead of the 2023 general elections
The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba in a chat pointed to the fact that Governor Wike has never dumped the PDP for once.
He further stated that Governor Wike’s support and passion for the party have never been in doubt.
This is coming after the Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayose, Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State visited Wike in Port Harcourt on Friday.
READ ALSO: 2023: Deji Adeyanju reacts as APC governors storm Port Harcourt to woo Wike and Fayose
Ologunagba while speaking on the development said, “I don’t speak for Governor Wike. I must put it on record. Governor Wike is a phenomenon in this country, Governor Wike is a politician of note. He is not a mean politician, he’s experienced, he’s gifted, and he’s very deep.
“He’s a man you can vouch for to speak wisely when it comes to matters of politics. He understands the issues.
“And so, we are confident because he’s been a true party man. Governor Wike has not left the PDP one minute since his membership of the PDP. That tells you the character of this individual; his dexterity, his steadfastness, his support and his passion for the party. That has never been in doubt.
“And so, when you read speculation from the press, which of course is welcome, but that may not reflect the true position.
“So, we know that Wike is a consistent man that believes in saying what he believes in, that says it the way it is and a man who is very passionate about the PDP.
“We believe that he is a man who is a major stakeholder in the party, which I have always described as a phenomenon.
“I mean, you recall that this individual, this governor, this outstanding governor that we call Mr. Project was at one point in this party circle the only man standing. So, we know him.
“He knows better than many of us when it comes to politics and we are confident in his membership of our party and in the critical role he has to play in fulfilling the mission and the mandate of our party, which is to rescue, rebuild and re-direct our country. We do not doubt that.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp