Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Pastor David Ibiyeomie of Salvation Ministries, Port Harcourt, has vowed to henceforth arrest and prosecute anyone who misquoted his message or insults him on social media.
Pastor Ibiyeomi who spoke on Sunday at the Second Service of Salvation Ministries Home of Success, said some people on social media were waiting for him to speak so that they could misquote him, saying he would henceforth fight them spiritually, physically and legally.
“All those people who are on their laptops now, who have no work, they won’t listen to what I am preaching, they are waiting for me to say something then they say, ” Pastor David Ibiyeomie said.
“You won’t hear what I am preaching, your work is to sit down on the laptop. I’m preaching now, some people on social media, all they do, that’s why they are not progressing because all they do is to listen to what I will say so they can misquote me. If you misquote me…, just misquote me; I will fight you spiritually, physically, legally.
READ ALSO: Largest healing crusade with Pastor Chris; participants set for avalanche of miracles
“I  have made up my mind, Nobody on social media will insult me, I will arrest you. Arrest your father, your mother, I lock you up. Do you know the reason? It is because you don’t lock people up, that is why they are joking. It is against ethics to misquote somebody.”
“Go and ask lawyers. I will take legal action against you. By the time I tell you 10 billion Naira damage, because my capacity is 50 billion. All your life savings, you will pay. When someone misquotes you, don’t take it for granted. Do you know it is against the law for somebody to snap you in public without your permission? Ask lawyers they will tell you,” he said.
According to Ibiyeomie, “You are intruding into my privacy; I sue you. By the time I claim N10-20 billion, your father and your mother will come and beg. I will follow you with the police, army, prayer, everything. Next time you will learn how to talk.
“If anybody insults you don’t say Church; arrest the person, lock the person up, go to court, win the case, let the judges sentence him to imprisonment with green uniform. The person will leave you alone.”
Share this on WhatsApp