Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communication Commissions (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta has revealed that with the advent of 5G technology, Nigerians are going to witness another dimension in the Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystem.
Danbatta disclosed this while addressing stakeholders at the just concluded Stakeholders Consultative Forum held in Lagos with the theme: “Regulatory Roadmap for IoT Ecosystem in Nigeria”
He said the Internet of Things (IoT) is a system of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals or people that are provided with unique identifiers and the ability to transfer data over a network without requiring any human intervention (human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction).
“This is increasingly becoming important in the scheme of activities across most sectors of the economy which includes Education, Security, Military Reconnaissance    Commerce, Governance, Inventory Management, Health, Surveillance, Smart City Initiatives etc.
READ ALSO: NCC has demonstrated readiness to harness potentials of IoT – Pantami
“The applications of IoT are far-reaching. In the home, IoT can be used for home automation and control, lighting, temperature measurement, entertainment amongst others. Similarly, in industrial settings, Internet of Things (IoT) unites assets, advanced analytics and workers by using connected industrial devices to monitor, collect, exchange, and analyze insights to drive faster and better decision making.  Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) can be used to track inventory, improve the monitoring of product quality, and automate factories to make them run more efficiently.
He stated that GSMA Intelligence forecasts that IoT connections will reach almost 25 billion globally by 2025, adding that with this pace of growth, it has become imperative to prepare for the Regulation of this important technology.
“Internet of things may be deployed as a standalone network of sensors, actuators and controllers or rely on a mobile operator’s network. Licensed or Unlicensed IoT are all Spectrum dependent and will certainly require our attention and that of our partners in this industry,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp