Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Osogbo house wife accused of setting her husband on fire has been confirmed dead while on the run following the death of her husband and police involvement in the case.
In one of the three suicide notes she left behind in her waist bag, Ifeoluwa denied killing her husband, and urged the police to investigate.
The husband, Bolu Bamdele was based in Cairo, Egypt, but came home to celebrate the last sallah with his family at Koka, Osun, where his wife Ifeoluwa accused him of infidelity.
According to family members, Bamidele made a huge transfer on his phone, and his wife had reason to believe the money was sent to another woman.
But others said Bamidele came home drunk that night, and her angry wife decided to look through his messages. It was there Ifeoluwa, who had three miscarriages so far, confirmed her husband had a child outside of their months-old union.
In the presence of her younger sister, the suspicion escalated to confrontation, and Ifeoluwa, who later described herself on a Whatsapp group as a naturally cool girl, doused the man and their entire apartment in fuel, and set it ablaze.
“I’ve always been a calm girl and I have never done this in my life but Teebam has pushed me to the edge. At this point, y’all will weep over myself and him before daybreak. I’m promising y’all that,” she reportedly wrote.
Nieghbours said it took 20 minutes before they could take down the burglary roof of the room Bamdele got trapped in.
The victim was moved from a private hospital n Osogbo to the UCH in Ibadan.
He, however, died last Tuesday.
Police thereafter declared Ifeoluwa, on the run, wanted.
The late husband was buried Thursday, and the wife committed suicide about that time, and died in her hideout in Ilesa on Friday.
According to reports, police earlier picked her up where she hid. Her father already got her lawyers right about then. When the police were about to take her in their car, Ifeoluwa sicked some substance. She coughed a little, and then told the police she already took poison.
She was first rushed to a private hospital, after taking poison, but later referred to another where she died.
Her brother-in-law confirmed her remains at a morgue.
In her suicide notes, she told “all my friends that genuinely loved me and gave listening ears. I love you guys and am sending you this to appreciate your love. Please help ensure Teebam’s legacy lives on, including mine.
“Remember Ifetife. I did not kill your friend. You all know I genuinely loved him and I still do, even to the point of my death. Do the findings everywhere, Omo baba and Forty especially. I am counting on you guys. Boluwatife will appreciate this so much.”
Share this on WhatsApp