Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
It was a moment of gross excitement as Cristiano Ronaldo made a sensational return to Manchester United one year ago and the 37-year-old had since gone ahead to score 24 goals across 38 games in all competitions on his comeback.
Sadly, things may not have pounded out the way the Portuguese envisaged especially as United finished on a low last season and were unable to secure for themselves a Champions League football in the coming season.
The above scenario however was believed to have been the catalyst propelling Ronaldo’s decision to quit Old Trafford in search of Champions League football and coupled with the belief that the five-time Ballon d’Or Award winner appeared not to be convinced with United’s rebuilding project.
The Red Devils current boss Erik ten Hag had taken charge at Old Trafford this summer following a dismal season under former manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and interim boss Ralf Rangnick last term in which the side finished sixth in the Premier League and once again failed to land any silverware.
Meanwhile, National Daily learnt from the claim by Spanish radio station COPE that Ronaldo is now prepared to extend his current United deal – which has one year left with the option to extend for a further 12 months – if it means he can spend the season out on loan at a club in the Champions League which will definitely amaze anyone.
It was gathered that Ronaldo’s agent Jorge Mendes has asked United to hand his client a contract extension, but with a loan move in the coming season.
National Daily had previously reported that Ronaldo has been absent from United’s pre-season training, citing ‘family reasons’, while missing the club’s tour of Asia and Australia as they prepare for the new 2022-23 campaign and returned to the UK for crunch talks with the club on Tuesday.
United maintain that Ronaldo is not for sale despite his efforts to find a new club, but could be willing to let him leave on loan for 12 months.
Chelsea, PSG, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid are among the clubs who have been offered the chance to sign him permanently – and despite the fact that none of those sides were willing to do a deal – they might be able to take him on loan.
Atletico are the latest club to be linked with the Portugal international, but president Enrique Cerezo has labelled a move for him as ‘practically impossible’.
 
Share this on WhatsApp