Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


The ace broadcaster, Babajide Kolade Otitoju, has reacted to the recent increments in the electricity tariffs by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). While speaking on the Television Continental (TVC’S) program on Friday, he wondered how electricity tariffs would be increased without the public’s knowledge.

Babajide lamented the frequent increments in tariffs without commensurate improvement in service delivery. Blaming the leadership of the country for the current woes of Nigeria, he noted that common Nigerians are languishing in poverty in the midst of plenty.
According to him, South Africa is generating about 42,000 megawatt of electricity, relying majorly on coal, while Brazil is producing more than 100,000 megawatt from hydro power.
Wondering what kind of Africa giant are we when we are struggling to generate a mere 4,200 megawatt, especially when we have adundance of both coal and water in the country.
Speaking further, he berated the electricity regulatory agencies for a poor job done so far as the country has experienced more than 140 grid collapses in eight years.
He advised that the power sector be deregulated to allow some capable Nigerians provide electricity for a fee. He disclosed that competent Nigerians, like Mr Adedeji Adeleke, the father of the Nigeria popular music superstar, Davido, is already chairing two power generation companies in Nigeria.
He is of the opinion that Nigerians are ready and willing to pay if electricity is supplied constantly to various homes and businesses across the country. Describing the present law in Nigeria, where you cannot generate more than 50 megawatt without transferring it to the national grid, as counter productive. He, however, advised the government to look into alternative sources of power generation, like solar, which is a better and cleaner source of electricity.
Buttressing his point, he point out that Lagos State Government secretariat at Alausa, Ikeja, is completely off the national grid, relying solely on solar panels for it’s electricity needs.


Share this on WhatsApp