Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Sarkin Hausawa of Orumba North LGA in Anambra state, Alhaji Sa’id Muhammad, has said northerners in Anambra State have resolved to leave the state because of the constant attacks by members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), the armed wing of the IPOB.
According to him, a pregnant woman, her four children and six others were killed in a gruesome manner by gunmen.
“The woman was from Adamawa State. Before her death, she lived in Orumba South, and on Sunday, she visited her friends with her four children.
“It was on her way back home in Orumba South that she was killed. She was being conveyed by a commercial motorcyclist when they were ambushed by the gunmen. They murdered her and her four children but the motorcyclist escaped,” he said.
READ ALSO: Adamawa woman, children on motor bikes murdered in Anambra
Five commercial motorcycle riders were also killed and their bikes burnt at Onocha LGA. The bodies of four of the deceased were deposited in the morgue while the fifth one was burnt to ashes.
Mohammed said another man, Abdullahi, who was selling roasted meat by the roadside at Nnanka, was also killed at his Suya spot.
“His body was by the roadside from Sunday evening until in the afternoon on Monday when I called the police DPO and informed him about it and requested him to help us recover the remains.
“He told me that he cannot send his men there because of the sit-at-home order. We are now planning to leave for the North as we can no longer stay here…They are killing us on a daily basis,” the Sarki said.
He said his younger brother, Aliyu, was also killed two months ago.
“I lost many of my colleagues to the nefarious activities of the terrorists and the killings are not being reported. Many of our colleagues have abandoned the driving job. The gunmen mostly attack drivers on some routes that have few or no security personnel.”
The killings marked another dimension in the gruesome attacks by gunmen believed to be militants of the outlawed separatist movement, the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB.


Share this on WhatsApp