Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, has described the proposed shutdown of flight operations by the Airline Operators of Nigeria as another “sad commentary on the unpardonable failure, corruption, incompetence, negative policies and lack of capacity of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration” to manage the nation’s economy effectively.
Recall that the Airline Operators of Nigeria plans to shut down operations from Monday over the outrageous increase in the price of aviation fuel.
The price of aviation fuel had recently risen from N190/litre and later N360/litre in January this year to N607/litre in March and reportedly hit N700/litre.
Elumelu, who bared the minds of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), lawmakers, on Saturday, warned that many businesses would be adversely affected, if the airline operators go ahead with their planned shutdown.
READ ALSO: APC Ticket: Osinbajo, Tinubu, Fayemi, others fail to agree on consensus
“This worrisome development in Nigeria, a major producer of oil, is another very sad commentary on the unpardonable failure, corruption, incompetence, negative policies and lack of capacity of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration to effectively manage our national economy.
“As representatives of the people, the Minority Caucus is concerned because aviation is pivotal to the operation, sustenance and survival of other key sectors of the economy and any shutdown of flight operations will have devastating spiral effects and worsen the excruciating economic hardship and further escalate insecurity in the country.
“This is because apart from the direct disabling of thousands of aviation related jobs and ancillary businesses, a shutdown of the sector will also have grave negative impact on critical government and public sector activities which are sustained by air travelling.
“A shutdown of the aviation sector will therefore cripple millions of businesses as well as economic and commercial activities thereby increasing unemployment, worsen the economic hardship, put pressure on our already ailing roads and exacerbate insecurity in our country.
“Moreover, the situation is a huge threat to our national integrity as it erodes the confidence of the International Community and foreign investors in our country thereby encouraging the movement of investments to neighbouring countries.
“The Minority Caucus therefore calls on President Buhari to wake up, note the grave import of the situation and save the aviation sector from imminent collapse by immediately addressing the fuel crisis and other challenges in the industry.

Share this on WhatsApp