Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA group of Hausa men have allegedly lynched and set ablaze a sound engineer simply identified as David over a misunderstanding that ensued because of N100 balance with a commercial motorcyclist, popularly called Okada rider in the Lekki area of Lagos.
According to SaharaReporters, sources said things got heated up and resulted in a fight between David and one of the okada rider and more motorcyclists allegedly pounced on David and his friends, beating them till they became unconscious.
David was on his way home from a club when the incident occurred at Lekki Phase 1, Lagos, a few days ago.
The aforementioned publication reported that video of the incident shows the deceased was being beaten alongside yet-to-be-identified men, said to be David’s friends.
See video here and here
David’s friends, Frank (saxophonist) and Philip (keyboardist) are said to be receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital.
A tweet by Ufuoma (@thecoloredpen), said, “#JusticeforDavid killed in Lagos over #100 change #JusticeForDeborahSamuel killed in Sokoto #JusticeforPhillipandFrank fighting for their lives in the hospital.
She added, “A group of musicians in Lagos had “regular” to play at Beer-bar along Admiralty road that evening. The sound engineer and keyboard player who mounted the same bike had an argument with the okada man (an aboki guy) which resulted in what became a cold-blooded night.
“The other okada riders (that were of the same tribe) came out and tried to avenge their “brother”. To cut the long story short, try were beaten to a pulp and the sound engineer lost his life right there. “As if that was not enough, the sound engineer was burnt right there on the road. To make matters worse, the saxophonist that was to play for the night heard about what was happening while the fight just ensued and he went to try to settle not having a full grasp of what was really going on.
“On getting there, he was also beaten to a pulp. The saxophonist (Frank) and the keyboardist (Philip) had to be taken to the emergency unit of the hospital where they were later admitted. Philip plays for D’banj, Frank plays for Phyno.”
This incident was also confirmed by someone who described himself as a friend of the deceased.
The friend also wrote, “My friend was beaten and set ablaze at Lekki phase 1 two days ago. A father of 2 children was beaten into a coma and burnt. No to Jungle justice. A father of 2 little children died like that.
“He was the sound engineer in my church. See how his life ended because of N100 change. Sometimes I wonder if the country Nigeria even started.
“What exactly is going on in this country? Just see how Dave was set on fire over N100 change argument/fight with a Hausa Okada man. Two of Dave’s friends who were with him are currently in ICU. They were all lynched to a pulp. This happened in Lekki 1 oh, not Sokoto oh.”
The commercial motorcyclist, who had a disagreement with David before the matter degenerated further, has reportedly been arrested by the police.
Share this on WhatsApp