Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 






In an interview with Sunday Scoop, Samklef stated that he spoke out because of other producers that were ‘suffering in silence’.


Samuel Oguachuba, the Nigerian music producer and singer, aka Samklef, ruffled some feathers when he recently called out singer, record label executive and politician, Bankole Wellington, popularly known as Banky W, for allegedly not giving him due credit, especially in form of royalties, for his input on singer, Wizkid’s debut album, Superstar.
In an interview with Sunday Scoop, Samklef stated that he spoke out because of other producers that were ‘suffering in silence’.
He said, “You describe it as ‘call out’. But, for me, it is just me voicing out. A lot of producers are suffering in silence and I am not happy about it. Shizzi, my brother, (also a producer) has also voiced out his frustrations. (I believe) more is coming.”
Samklef also stated that he declared his intention to run for the office of the President of Nigeria because it was time to stop complaining, and start acting.
He said, “Leadership is a responsibility and not a right. I believe every responsible Nigerian should be able to run for any (elective) position as provided and supported by the constitution. We have done enough of complaining. I declared to run in order to inspire other young able Nigerians that might be nursing political ambitions. I have helped with a seven-point agenda and I believe we would see many young people declaring (their intentions).”
Asked if he believed that a young Nigerian stood the chance of leading the nation, he said, “It starts with the mind. If you believe it, you would achieve it. Nigeria cannot change in four years. That is why we need a young person that has a lot at stake and still has reasons to stay alive to run the country. Check my agenda; it has plans for 25 years.”
On if he feels misunderstood by people, Samklef said, “Even Jesus was misunderstood, so I pay more attention to those that understand what I am saying and are in the same realm as me.”






Share this on WhatsApp