Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Lagos State Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Funmilayo Sessi and her Trade Union Congress (TUC) counterpart, Comrade Olugbenga Ekundayo, along with leaders of trade union organisations endorsed Governor Sanwo-Olu on behalf of millions of informal and formal workers in the State during the International Workers’ Day held at Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan on Sunday.
They said they decided to support Governor Sanwo-Olu’s re-election because he is a worker-friendly governor and has performed very well to deliver on his campaign promises in line with the administration’s THEMES developmental agenda.
READ ALSO: Lagos 2023: gov Sanwo-Olu purchases N50m APC nomination form to seek re-election
The NLC chairman, Comrade Sessi said Lagos workers decided to endorse Governor Sanwo-Olu for a second term because he has performed beyond expectation, considering his remarkable achievements in different sectors in the State.
She said: “On behalf of the workers in Lagos who represent more than 50 per cent of the voting population, we hereby support your second term in office. We the workers are supporting you because you are the hope of the masses. Workers in Lagos stand with you.
“During the COVID-19 pandemic, you did not sack workers and even gave palliatives. Even after the pandemic, you are still employing workers. You were also prompt in paying salaries. This is not like that of other states. Therefore, anywhere you go, we shall stand with you.”
The Chairman of TUC, Comrade Ekundayo also assured Governor Sanwo-Olu of workers’ support in the forthcoming 2023 governorship election, saying the workers have benefitted a lot from Governor Sanwo-Olu and they know who to support and vote for during the February 11, 2023 year governorship elections.
READ ALSO: Sanwo-Olu’s preferred choice for running mate in 2023 revealed
The labour leaders thanked Governor Sanwo-Olu for fulfilling some of the promises made to the workers last year, among which were the allocation of land for the building of the secretariat of Lagos State chapters of NLC and TUC; donation of 17 official vehicles to unions and allocation of 10 hectares of land at Idera, in Ibeju-Lekki and Akarakumo in Badagry, for the construction of Workers Villages, to which members will be able to subscribe through pocket-friendly mortgage schemes.
Governor Sanwo-Olu during the event presented the title documents of a parcel of land of sufficient size in the Alausa Central Business District on which the NLC and TUC will build befitting Lagos State headquarters.
Sanwo-Olu, who commended the workers for their contributions to the development of Lagos State and Nigeria at large, said his administration’s development agenda is anchored on the existence of a skilful, productive, competitive and adaptive human resource base.
Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola in his goodwill message, commended Governor Sanwo-Olu for providing an enabling environment for the growth and development of workers in the state.
The Minister of Labour and Productivity, Senator Chris Ngige, who was represented by the Controller of Labour, Nnamdi Enuah, said the role of labour is pivotal to national development and therefore urged workers to continue to support federal and state governments.
Share this on WhatsApp