Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Onion, also known as Allium cepa, is a medicinal herb which is also used for cooking due to nutrient value. Onion is very good for your body when consumed in a moderate quantity, however, it also have certain side effects which can cause harm to your body especially when you eat it excessively.
According to the medical facts, here are some of the things that may happen to your body if you eat too much onions.
1. Too much onions can trigger irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
When you eat too much onions, it can aggravate symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome in your body. Irritable bowel syndrome is an intestinal disorder that causes pain in the stomach, constipation, and diarrhoea. When you have an irritable bowel syndrome, it is advisable that you restrict your onion consumption.
2. Eye irritation
Onions usually produce a sulphur metabolite gas known as lachrymatory factor (LF). When you constantly eat raw onions, this volatile LF gas can easily evaporate and reach your eyes. This would cause a stinging irritation in your eyes, that is usually accompanied with tear productions.
3. Too much onions may cause heartburn
When you eat too much onions, it may cause a heartburn. Heartburn is a form of indigestion felt as a burning sensation in the chest, caused by acid regurgitation into the the oesophagus. This is usually common in people who have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
4. Too much onions can cause allergy
Excessive consumption of onions can cause allergic reaction in your body. Onion has lipid transfer proteins and diallyl disulfide, compounds which can cause an allergies like asthma, runny nose, itchy eye and nose.
5. Onions can cause temporary bad breath
When you chew too much onions, it can make you develop temporary bad breath, which is known as halitosis. You can remove this bad breath by brushing your teeth or using a mouth wash.
6. Onions can make certain drugs inactive
When you eat too much onions, it can interfere with certain drugs yo take, thereby making them not to function effectively as it should. Onions can hinder the activity of anticoagulant drugs.


Share this on WhatsApp