Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) was on Thursday conferred the National Productivity Order of Merit (NPOM) Award for its productivity, hard work and excellence in service delivery.
President Muhammadu Buhari conferred the award on NITDA at the celebration of the National Productivity Day in Abuja.
NITDA alongside 47 other eminent Nigerians and organisations, both public and private institutions, were awarded.
Buhari congratulated all the awardees for their various accomplishments and well-deserved recognition.
According to the National Productivity Order of Merit Award Committee, NITDA’s recommendation and subsequent nomination came after a vigorous selection process.
It added that the agency recorded impressive and commendable achievements in facilitating the development of Nigeria into a sustainable digital economy.
“NITDA adheres strictly to information security and safety.
“The agency’s proactive action in creating a robust management procedure, through which any irregular or adverse event that occurs and affects the normal functioning of a system is adequately dealt with is a worthy accomplishment.
“Another commendable attribute of the agency is its commitment to improve and sustain productivity through training and retraining of staff.
“As a matter of policy, every staff of NITDA is expected to have at least 40 hours of training within three years and this has resulted in improved staff competencies, knowledge and skills.
The Director-General of NITDA, Malam Kashifu Inuwa, while receiving the award for the agency, pledged the agency’s continuous determination towards the expansion of the digital space in order to impact the lives of more Nigerians.
Inuwa said the agency would sustain its expansion of the digital space through the development of an increased critical mass of information technology-proficient and globally competitive manpower.
The award falls into the 2020 Organisational Category and highlights NITDA as the only government agency, among other privately owned organisations, to be so recognised.
Share this on WhatsApp