Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

congratulates Muslim faithful


The Lagos State House of Assembly Muslim Community has congratulated Muslim faithful for the successful completion of a month’s fast, calling on the Federal Government to urgently tackle the spate of insecurity in the country.

This was contained in a statement signed by the Council of Imams of the Community was made available to newsmen by Secretary General, Lagos State House of Assembly Muslim Community Alhaji Ahmed Oyasipe, which noted that as Muslims celebrate ‘Idu l Fitr, the lessons learnt during Ramadan should be their guiding principles at all time.


The statement reads, “In the name of Allah, the most Gracious, the most Merciful. Peace and blessings of Allah be upon the Messenger of Allah, Muhammad (S.A.W.) whose guidance has been sustaining the world.

“We give honour and glory to Allah for His protection over every Muslim by having the privilege to have completed Ramadan 1443 A H. (2022). It was indeed a spiritual journey that transformed the entire universe.

“We therefore urge our dear Muslim brothers and sisters to uphold lessons already imbibed during fasting. It will be a vain exercise if anyone goes back to vices after the fast. We are now newborns as taught by Prophet Muhammad. Let us keep to this righteousness.

“We call on Muslims to be good ambassadors of Islam. Be cautious of your characters at all times.


“Embrace peace, love and tranquility. Be an agent social change for good to emancipate Nigeria from her present predicaments.

“We use this opportunity to pray for those in captivity, especially those who were kidnapped during the Kaduna-Abuja train attack by bandits. We appeal to the Federal Government to ensure safe release of all the abductors.

“While also urging the Federal Government to put mechanisms in place to forestall a recurrence of kidnapping and other terrorism acts, we believe governments at all levels will have to work in collaboration to stem the ugly tide of insecurity pervading the country.

“As we celebrate this year’s 1443 A.H. (2022) ‘Idu l Fitr, theLagos State House of Assembly Muslim Community congratulates Muslim faithful in the country and globally.

“Our sincere appreciation goes to the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. (Dr) Mudashiru Obasa, other members of the House and staff for their moral and financial support for the Ummah over the years.

“May we live long to enjoy the fruits of our labour. Happy and blissful ‘Idu l Fitr.”



Share this on WhatsApp