Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love






Mr. Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland has accused the Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) of illegally sending policemen to seal his business premises over an alleged debt to Polaris Bank.

Adewale who is also the CEO of Aeroland Conglomerate, in chat with newsmen on the matter said that he was surprised to see police officers invading the premises of his air travel agency located on John Olugbo Street, Ikeja, Lagos on Friday May 6, 2022 and ordered him and his workers our over an allegation that he was owing the bank some money.

On the contrary, Adewale said that it is Polaris Bank that has refused to grant him access to his N1.779 Billion in the bank immediately after the 2015 Lagos West Senatorial Election.

He lamented that what made matter worse was that he took the bank to court in 2018 over his seized money, and that neither the officials of the bank nor its lawyers appeared in court only for them to accuse him of owing them and got an exparte order to seal his property.

“I banked with Prudent Bank, which became Skye Bank and later changed to Polaris Bank.

“I went to court in 2018 because I couldn’t get my money from the bank and told the court what happened and the litigation was activated ever since then, till now it is still pending but I am miffed by the sudden development where in spite of the knowledge of a subsisting case, another court will go ahead and do otherwise, it signals nothing but a daylight rape of justice.

“They are now saying that I took a loan from them and I wonder which loan they are talking about? On the contrary they are the ones owing me about N1.779 Billion. They were not going to court and the court kept adjourning the matter.

“However I was here on Friday May 6, 2022, when policemen came to my office and my house, they sealed my properties and said that I was owing them.

“I was not even informed that they were coming, they just came to my office and my house and took over the two places.

“I couldn’t work, my people couldn’t work, they just came here and I have lost a lot of money now. I have lost name and image and they even went to the bank to stop my money,” he said.

Adewale insisted that if he was actually owing the bank, he had the right to know what he is owing and when he took the money, adding that he ought to be allowed to argue his case.

He said; “they are the ones owing me N1.779 Billion since 2015 and I sued them to court and I have been managing my life since then.

“Polaris Bank has been using all forms of tricks to surcharge me and by extension pilfering my money. The former Managing Director of the bank, Tokunbo Abiru is now a serving senator under the platform of the APC.

“I have gone back to my lawyer and he told me that it is illegal for them to lock my office.

“He said that what they did is wrong that they could not take the case to another judge since it is before a judge already, and that it is an abberation to court process.”


According to him, once a case is in a court of competent jurisdiction, they cannot go to another court to get exparte order, which he said is what has now happened.

“We have not argued any case, you have not called me to any meeting, you just took over my office. It’s an injustice.

“I’m going to petition the Managing Director and lawyers of the Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) for what they have done. Apart from that, I’m going to sue them for a billion naira for disrupting my business.

“Some years back, the Lagos State Government said I was owing them N180 million for Land Use Charge, they came here, locked my office and brought black Maria and arrested all my staff.

“I went there and they discovered that I was not owing them any money.

“The one that is more painful now is that this current matter is in a high court since 2018 and you did not show up only for you to lock my office on account of one Jakanra exparte order,this is not fair and it is nothing but an attempt to scuttle my bright chances at the polls.

“We will approach the court and the judge would see to the matter. They swore to an oath and lied, when they ought to pay me my money,” he said.


“If this is not witch hunting or sheer wickedness, why didn’t they just serve me a court summon, giving me the opportunity to explain myself and if the judge feels that I am defaulting, he can then  give a verdict rather than going on all pages of newspapers and start castigating, destroying my name.
“Why going to get an exparte motion behind me and not giving me opportunity to show my records to the court?
“They rather spring to action without a court verdict but an exparte motion that will expire in two weeks time, leaving me no chance to fair hearing.
“I insist I am not owing Polaris a dime and if like they claimed I am owing, it is not enough for them to go to get an exparte motion, they should show the press where the money was disbursed into my account, stating the account details of the recipient of the alleged money.” Adewale said.







Share this on WhatsApp