Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
 
The chairman of the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) Engr. Gbenga Adebayo would be reviewing the latest book in the industry, entitled ‘Sagacity of a digital revolution’ authored by the award-winning journalist, Remmy Nweke.
Adebayo, according to Remmy Nweke, would on Thursday, June 9, 2022 share his thoughts as the reviewer at the book public presentation and formal launch slated to hold at the prestigious Welcome Centre Hotels, International Airport Road, Lagos, as a sideline event of the 2022 Nigeria DigitalSENSE Forum on Internet Governance for Development with the theme: ‘5G: Enthroning Internet Governance for Digital Economy.’
A press statement endorsed by the author and Group Executive Editor, ITREALMS Media group, noted that the Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta would give the keynote at NDSF 2022 on the theme.
Nweke gave some highlight on the his latest book – SAGACITY OF A DIGITAL REVOLUTION; which is a collage of well-researched analytics on several subjects but not limited to diversification of Nigeria’s economy, managing oil spill without tears, 10 years after OBJ circular on local content; malady of inconclusive elections in Nigeria and role of ICTs, curtailing child malnutrition in Nigeria to name but a few.
READ ALSO: MTN, Glo, Airtel, others face 36 levies, taxes, says ALTON
In the words of the Prof. Charles Uwadia, who wrote the foreword, “This book is particularly suited and recommended for policy makers, infrastructure planners, Chief Executive Officers and government officials in Ministries, Departments, Agencies of Local, State and Federal Government of Nigeria; other nations that share similar political and socio-economic environments with Nigeria will also find lessons to learn from the book.”
Nweke who doubles as the Lead Consulting Strategist, DigitalSENSE Africa and Group Executive Editor, ITREALMS Media group, said that the “Sagacity of a Digital Revolution” is his third book since 2012.
Nweke noted that the choice of ALTON chairman as the reviewer of his latest book, ‘Sagacity Of A Digital Revolution’ is to bring to bear the dynamics of the digital era as Engr. Adebayo is the author of ‘Telecom in Nigeria, A Role In The Call,’ a book on telecommunications development in Nigeria (2006).
Adebayo, he recalled, is the chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer of Communication Network Support Services Limited Group of Companies, whose operations cuts across telecommunication network maintenance, Call and Contact Centre Service, Media, Broadcasting, Agriculture, Hotels and Hospitality Services, Medical and Hospital Services.
He is the President and Founder of Royal FM 95.1Mhz. The first private FM Radio Station in Ilorin, North Central Nigeria. He is the chairman of African Broadband Limited, owners of Royal FM, Royal Television Service and Royal Times of Nigeria Newspapers.
Equally, Adebayo who presides over ALTON; an industry association for all telecommunications operators in Nigeria, with membership across all the major telecommunications licensees in Nigeria, particularly those providing voice and data telephony as well as those providing ancillary and other related value added services.
He is the Chairman and Founder of Savannah Hotels and Resort Centre, Ilorin North Central Nigeria; the owner and chief farmer of Chesterfield Farms Limited and doubles as the Chancellor of Premier Vocational Training Institute Nigeria; a foremost vocational training centre for middle level manpower development across trades in Nigeria.
Engr Adebayo is proudly the founder of Heilung Kreuz Hospital, a top class medical and health care hospital in Lagos, South West Nigeria; A founding partner of Acoometi Premier Services (UK) limited, a consultancy and advisory services company registered in England and Wales.
A former General Manager of VGC Communications Ltd. Nigeria, a Private Telephone Operator and provider of digital fibre optic supported landline services, data communications and broadband internet services.
Share this on WhatsApp