Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, has sent warm wishes to Nigerian Muslims as they mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, being the celebration that comes after the Ramadan, a very important part of the Islamic faith.
Obasa, also congratulated the Nigerian Muslim faithful for having the special grace of Almighty Allah to partake in the Ramadan just as he thanked them for using the period to seek the face of Allah in the efforts to make the country a better place.
In a message issued by his media office on Sunday, the Speaker urged Nigerians to have faith that the country would soon witness the type of greatness desired by citizens.
He, however, advised Nigerians to remain steadfast, united, love one another and always play positive roles while the country’s leaders work for its progress.
“With the enormous human and other resources that we have, Nigeria has great potentials. These potentials can be tapped by looking inwards, making the right choices, working to achieve them and, above all, seeking Allah’s direction and guidance.
“We are currently encouraged that the successes so far recorded by Lagos through a synergy between the State House of Assembly and the other arms of government have become reference points for development. We are not there yet, but we are constantly on the right path knowing that the best is achievable.
“As we mark this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, therefore, we should further resolve not to deviate from the lessons of Ramadan, the virtues of Islam and the commandments of Allah. If we do these, we are sure that we have played some of the roles expected of us as citizens for a greater Nigeria.
“As we celebrate, I want to urge us all to continue to pray for our country and its leaders. In Lagos, we will continue to strive for the general happiness of the residents and we will always do this through our usual pro-people laws, motions and resolutions,” the Speaker assured.
Share this on WhatsApp