Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria has urged the Department of State Services to arrest the Chief Imam of Bayero University, Kano, Sheikh Abubakar Jibril who allegedly incited Muslims against the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan-Kukah.
According to HURIWA’s National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, Jibril was captured in a viral video telling his many Muslim followers to get the home address of Kukah and possibly attack the bishop.
The incitement followed the lynching of Deborah Samuel, a 200-level Home Economics student of the Shehu Shagari College of Education in Sokoto, for alleged blaspheming Prophet Mohammed last week.
Bishop Kukah condemned the killing, and called on government to ensure justice.
Two of the mob were arrested, but youth in Sokoto protested and unleashed violence, vandalized two Catholic parishes and a shop before police contained the riot.
Kukah insisted his home was not attacked, and that  he was safe–refuting news making the round his home was burnt.
HURIWA on Monday accused Jibril of sponsoring the attack on Kukah’s parishes through inciting comments on social media.
“In fact, we think the constant bashing of spokespersons for President Muhammadu Buhari against Bishop Kukah for being outspoken against anti-democratic practices of the government encouraged haters of truth and objectivity to target the bishop last Saturday.
“Jibril, in a trending video, erroneously accused Bishop Kukah of motivating Deborah to commit alleged blasphemy, threatening to deal with Bishop Kukah. Jibril then asked if his followers knew Kukah’s house and the listeners shouted, ‘Yes we do’. He is inciting them to attack Bishop Kukah.
“HURIWA charges the DSS to arrest Jibril immediately for questioning as the secret police had probed and persecuted the late deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Obadiah Mailafia; and other vocal Christian leaders like Kukah himself.
“Anything short of the arrest of Jibril is sentimental and condemnable. Nothing must happen to Kukah. Nigerians are watching and are not fools.”
Share this on WhatsApp