A teenager is inoculated with Pfizer's vaccine against coronavirus disease (COVID-19) after Georgia authorized the vaccine for ages over 12 years, at Dekalb Pediatric Center in Decatur, Georgia, U.S. May 11, 2021.   REUTERS/Chris Aluka Berry
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Researchers at Charité Berlin, Germany’s top hospital and one of Europe’s largest, announced a high rate of COVID-19 vaccine severe side effects lasting months or longer based on a survey of about 40,000 Germans.
The study’s lead researcher, Dr. Harald Matthes, estimated half a million Germans experienced serious side effects following vaccination. Survey findings indicate up to 80% of people with severe reactions recover within three to six months, but for 20% the symptoms persist.
This equates to 100,000 Germans currently suffering from long-term serious side effects. That means 0.16% of people vaccinated are still suffering serious side effects more than six months following vaccination.
READ ALSO: COVID vaccine injuries rises in US, over a million reported cases
This is a major embarrassment for the PEI, which has maintained all along that it is doing a thorough tracking of vaccine adverse events and denounced as “anti-vaxxers” anyone who questioned the official numbers.
He noted most have been unable to find help in the current medical climate, which both strongly discourages talking about vaccine injury and is basically clueless about how to help the vaccine-injured.
Germ:any set up outpatient clinics devoted to long COVID, and the vaccine-injured can turn to them for help. But there’s a problem: too many injuries.
“The special outpatient clinic at the University Hospital in Marburg is a prominent example of this. The employees actually wanted to do research on Long Covid, but now they mainly care for patients with severe vaccination side effects.
“Between 200 and 400 e-mails from those affected are now received daily in the Marburg special outpatient clinic, and the waiting list includes around 800 patients.
“The problem here, however, is that demand far outstrips supply. ‘We need more outpatient clinics, they are far from enough,’ emphasizes Matthes in the MDR report. [Note that outpatient treatment in German is machine-translated into ‘ambulances’ in English.”
In this interview, Matthes is asked about Andreas Schöfbeck, the insurance company executive who was fired after raising concerns about vaccine injury based on claims data:
“He should have said there is a clue here, but causality has yet to be verified. It wasn’t entirely clear if he was speaking politically, or if he was just doing his due diligence and saying: Here’s a signal that needs to be investigated further, please. That little differentiation cost him his job.
“But if you then look at how black and white is currently being painted in public and with what vehemence certain opinions are exchanged without there being any facts — then you realize how unfairly he was punished for something that maybe was not quite carefully worded.”

Share this on WhatsApp