Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Kano State Police Command has confirmed that it recovered a vehicle laden with Improvised Explosives Device (IED) materials en route from Jigawa to the state.
The police in a statement late Saturday by its spokesman, SP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, said the vehicle laden with IED making materials was recovered on Thursday, following an intelligence report.
He said, “A Mercedes Benz Motor Vehicle, Ash in color with suspected sophisticated Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) is coming from Jigawa State to Kano State
“The Commissioner of Police, Kano State Command, CP Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko, immediately raised a crack team comprising Explosive Ordnance Disposal – Chemical, Biological Radiological and Nuclear Defence (EOD-CBRN) and Operation Puff Adder.
“At about 1630hrs of the same date, following a hot chase, the suspects abandoned the Motor Vehicle at Bubbugaje Quarters Kumbotso LGA Kano State,” he said.
A technical search conducted by the team revealed that the motor vehicle was fully loaded with IED materials, two AK-47 rifles, four AK-47 magazines, 1,098 live ammunition and two pistol magazines, and that investigation has continued.
those that lost their lives as a result of the explosion are; Ejike Vincent (Welder), Michael Adejo (Chemical Seller), Musa Kalla (Tea Seller), Christiana Abosade, Austine Dada, Madam Owoleke, Omo Ben, Bose Oladapo, and a woman simply identified as Mary.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that, among the 9 victims of the explosion, one of them deals in illicit storage of toxic chemicals and other hazardous materials. He was later identified as Michael Adejo (now late),” he said.
He listed items recovered at the scene to include; five bottles of different brands of acidic liquid, three bags of Potassium substance, a Jeri can of mixed chemicals, six and a half cartons of Snuff (Tobacco), and five drums of Polymer (Chemical).
“Technical investigation conducted by the command’s Explosive Ordnance Disposal – Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Defence (EOD-CBRN) revealed that the explosion is suspected to have occurred as a result of mixed Chemical/Gas reactions exposed to a source of heat, such as fire, spark or increased in pressure resulting in combustion/shock waves, creating an explosion which can have shattering effects.
“Meanwhile arrests have been made linking one of the collapsed shop with dealings in sales of illicit, toxic chemical substances and combustible materials suspected to be used for making Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Evidence of purchase was also recovered. An investigation is in progress,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp