Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Head of Service of the Federation has issued a circular notifying civil servants of the rules that ban them from partisan politics.
The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, in a circular dated May 5, 2022, clarified the provision of public service rule (PSR) vis-à-vis the Supreme Court judgement as it relates to participation of civil servants in partisan politics.
The Office of the Head of Service of the Federation (CHCSF) noted that following requests for clarification on the provision of Public Service Rules (PSR) vis-à-vis the Supreme Court judgement as it relates to participation of civil servants in partisan politics, it has become necessary to draw the attention of all civil servants to the legal opinion of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami SAN, on the matter. She cited that the Minister in a letter dated November 26, 2018, asserted inter alia that: “neither the 1999 constitution nor the Supreme Court has authorized civil servants to engage in partisan politics. The provisions of Rules 030422 and 030423 of the Public Service Rules (2008 Edition) were not nullified by the Supreme Court, hence, they remain in force and binding on all civil servants seeking to participate in nomination exercises or party primaries.”
The HOS maintained that the minister concluded that, “the provisions of Rules 030402(g) and 030423 of the Public Service Rules (2008 Edition) should be enforced… and that the attention of civil servants (be drawn) to the fact that the Supreme Court judgement in INEC vs Musa did not set aside or nullify these provisions of the Public Service Rules, hence, they must be complied with by any civil servant who wishes to seek nomination or participation in party primary elections.”
Dr. Yemi-Esan declared that “in the overall best interest of neutrality, harmony, integrity and development of Nigerian Civil Servant, all civil servants are strongly advised to be guided by the provisions of PSR and the legal opinion of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice on the subject.”

 
Share this on WhatsApp