Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
Persons on voyage on a Carnival Cruising Ship who had been ascertained to be fully vaccinated, were infested by COVID-19 while sailing in the sea. Management of Carnival Cruise Lines ascertained compliance with the requirement that all passengers and staff must be fully vaccinated, but decried that the cruising ship experienced COVID-19 outbreak on its Carnival Spirit in recent days even though the company
The management had revealed: “The Carnival Spirit team managed a number of COVID cases during its 16-day Panama Canal journey that departed Miami on April 17 and arrived in Seattle on May 3.
“There were no serious health issues, and while some guests showed minor symptoms, most were asymptomatic.”
The occurrence cast more doubts on the necessity of the various COVID-19 vaccines and the veracity of the argument that people need the vaccine which cannot protected the assumed “protected” who had taken the full doses, which include booster jabs.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDC) acknowledged the COVID-19 outbreak amongst the fully vaccinated onboard the cruising ship, saying that the agency has “started an investigation”, noting that the “ship remains under observation.” The Centre started that “the Carnival Spirit meets the threshold for a CDC investigation based on the number of COVID-19 cases.”
The Carnival ship’s spokesperson had stated: “all health and safety protocols were closely followed, including vaccination requirements and pre-cruise testing of all guests” and “our crew are also vaccinated and wear masks.
“Our protocols are designed to flex up as needed and additional measures were implemented during the voyage, including mask requirements for guests.”
The spokesperson added that “Carnival provided transportation and lodging support for guests who needed to quarantine per CDC guidelines”.
More evidence of the invalidity of covid vaccines, as well as the adverse effects, have continued to be exposed through victims who have been vaccinated fully of all recommended doses, including booster jabs. The world is now coming to terms with the global deceits and business fortunes of the vaccine merchants, the big Pharmakos.
Source: The Epoch Times
Share this on WhatsApp