Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra State on Sunday placed one million rewards for anyone that would provide information for the arrest of the gunmen that beheaded a member of the Anambra State House of Assembly.
The gunmen kidnapped the lawmaker, Okechukwu Okoye, representing Aguata 2 Constituency in Anambra State House of Assembly, the same constituency with Governor Chukwuma Soludo, and his aide, Cyril Chiegboka, along Aguluzigbo road, Anaocha Local Government Area, early last week.
Thereafter, the lawmaker’s dead body was said to be found abandoned at Chisco Park in Amichi, Nnewi South Local Government Area on Saturday.
Governor Soludo in a statement on Sunday by his media aide, Christian Aburime, condemned the gruesome killing of the lawmaker. He stated that killers of the lawmaker are heartless and barbaric; noting that he received the news with rude shock and deep sadness.
The statement reads: “Soludo condoles with his kinsmen of Isuofia, noting that it is probably the same criminal gang that attacked him and killed three policemen at Isuofia two years ago that are once again on the prowl. But they can never cow down Isuofia and Anambra State.
“The governor is still in shock over the barbaric acts against his two kinsmen, vowing that the perpetrators, as well as all criminals operating in Anambra, must be decisively brought to book.
“Governor Soludo has consequently placed N10 million reward for anyone or group that will avail valuable information that will lead to the immediate arrest of the perpetrators of this dastardly act. Anambra will soon be hell for these criminals.
“He wishes to reassure Ndi Anambra of the government’s resolve and renewed determination with the security agencies to go all out against the criminals and ensure they are brought to justice.
“Anambra will win against the forces of darkness. Ndi Anambra should brace up for the all-out war against the criminals.”
The Police Public Relations Officer of the Anambra State Command, Tochukwu Ikenga, had acknowledged the killing on Saturday night.
Share this on WhatsApp