Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Premier league giants Chelsea may have watched Real Madrid dethroned them as the holders of the UEFA Champions League trophy, but the Stamford Bridge club are also winners as they are beneficiaries on the big night.
Liverpool’s defeat has seen their outstanding season rather ending in disappointment with the Reds unable to add either the Champions League or Premier League title to their earlier FA Cup and EFL Cup successes.
Jurgen Klopp and Liverpool were stunned as Vincius Junior’s second-half goal was enough to separate the sides in the French capital as Real Madrid secured a record-extending 14th Champions League crown and lifted their second trophy of the season, following the La Liga title.
A Real Madrid win was certainly the best outcome for Chelsea, who not only saw their Premier League rivals lose but also netted themselves a tidy windfall thanks to a clause in Eden Hazard’s transfer.
The Belgian forward moved to the Bernabeu in 2019 in a deal costing an initial £88.5m, but which included several add-ons that could take the full price to more than £130m.
Chelsea scooped nearly £20m when Hazard helped Real Madrid win La Liga and qualify for the Champions League in 2020, and a similar sum will be heading to Stamford Bridge following Madrid’s Champions League win, according to the reports reaching National Daily.
The Blues will still get paid despite the fact Hazard has barely played for Real Madrid this season and played no part in Saturday’s final.
Former Chelsea goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois was Real Madrid’s hero in Paris, with Hazard’s Belgium team-mate producing a number of brilliant saves and winning the Player of the Match award.
Meanwhile, Carlo Ancelotti hailed his Real Madrid side after they overcame Liverpool to win yet another Champions League.
He said: ‘I can’t believe it. We had a fantastic season. We did really well. It was a difficult game and we suffered a lot, more so in the first half. In the end I think we deserved to win this competition.
‘We’re really happy. What can I say? I can’t say more. I am a record man. I had luck to come here last year and have a fantastic season. A fantastic club, a really good squad with a lot of quality and mental character.
‘The season was top. I think we passed through really difficult games. The supporters helped us a lot in the last game. They helped us tonight. We’re happy and they’re happy.’
Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp added: ‘In the dressing room nobody feels it was a great season at the moment. We maybe need a few hours for that.
‘We played a good game, not a perfect game. I don’t think a perfect game is possible against an opponent set up with a deep formation.
‘We had a lot of shots but not the clearest. Courtois made two top saves. We conceded a goal from a throw-in. Valverde wanted to shoot, Vinicius was there and that’s it.’
Share this on WhatsApp