Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Worried by what could lead to a repeat of the Zamfara and Rivers state saga, a concerned party man in Ojo constituency 1, Mr. Tunde Olaniran has petitioned the Lagos State All Progressives Congress on alleged irregularities that fraught the party’s screening exercise for  aspirants ahead of its primaries.

Olaniran in said petition filed through his lawyer from Optimal Law Partners alleged that a particular character named Mr. Ege Adebisi Olusegun who happens to be one of the aspirants jostling for the Lagos State House  of Assembly seat in Ojo constituency 1, ran foul on well stipulated party constitutional provisions as regards the recent screening exercise.
According to the petition already received by the party, the screening exercise expose lots of discrepancies and irregularities about Mr. Ege’s eligibility.

In the nomination  form submitted by Mr. Ege, his name reads “Ege Adebisi Olusegun” whereas his birth certificate contradicts it with “Ege Adebisi Oluse”.

At that point Mr. Ege was asked to depose to an affidavit and make a publication in the national dailies to rectify the issue before the closure of the window for documents submission.

Also during the screening exercise  he was said to have affirmed to the party that he had resigned from his employment with the Lagos State Government, a claim which was later discovered to be falsely made as he (Mr.Ege)in the course of the screening exercise, affirmed that he was gainfully employed in the office if the Head of Service of Lagos State Government.

The petition notes that going by the cited issues Mr. Ege has not substantially complied with the condition precedent laid down by APC for the eligibility by aspirants  for the Lagos State House Assembly Ojo Constituency 1.

Responding to the content of the petition on phone, Mr. Ege denied all the allegations adding that he awaits the recommendation of the committee.

“ I have been duly cleared by the screening committee as an aspirant and regarding the said petition let’s wait for the recommendation of the committee “.Mr. Ege said.
The Lagos State APC Chairman, Mr. Cornelius Ojelabi who spoke with Sunrise.ng on phone, notes that the issue with any aspirant’s eligibility need be routed to the appeal committee for proper handling.
“ I am not a member of the screening committee and if there is any issue with an aspirant not being eligible such should be forwarded to them.

“They are the ones saddled with the responsibility if there is any issue after then the appeal committee takes it up.”


Share this on WhatsApp