Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Lagos Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday, May 25, 2022, arraigned one Olubunmi Akitoye Adeola on a 12-count charge bordering on stealing and possession of fraudulent documents to the tune of N30,000,000.00( Thirty Million Naira) before Justice A.O. Okunuga  of the Lagos State High Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos.
One of the counts reads: “That you, Olubunmi Akintoye Adeola (Trading under the name and style of Fola Mart International), on or about the 11th October, 2021 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, dishonestly converted to your own use the sum of N25,000,000 (Twenty-five Million Naira), property of Alhaja Bolaji Fowosire and Iceland International Limited.”
Another count reads: “That you, Olubunmi Akintoye Adeola (Trading under the name and style of Fola.
READ ALSO: EFCC finally arrest ex-Imo governor, Okorocha amidst gunshot
Mart International), on or about the 12th October, 2021 in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court,  dishonestly converted to your own use the sum of N30,000,000 (Thirty Million Naira), property of Alhaja Bolaji Fowosire and Iceland International Limited.”
She pleaded “not guilty” to the charge when it was read to her.
Following her plea, the prosecuting counsel, M. K. Bashir, prayed the court for a trial date and also for the remand of the defendant at the facility of the Nigerian Correctional Service.
The defence counsel, M.A. Bala, informed the court about a bail application dated May 9, 2022 for the defendant and also prayed for a short date for bail hearing.
Thereafter, Justice Okunuga adjourned till Wednesday, June 1, 2022 for bail hearing and also ordered that the defendant be remanded at Kirikiri Correctional facility, Lagos.
In a related development,  the Lagos Command of the EFCC also on Wednesday, May 25, 2022 arraigned one Chinomso Uzonna Chikwendu on a two-count charge bordering on stealing and possession of fraudulent documents to the tune of N13, 055,000.00 (Thirteen Million, Fifty- five Thousand Naira only) before Justice Okunuga.
The offence is contrary to Sections 278 and 285 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria, No. 11, 2011.
One of the counts reads: “That you, Chinomso Uzonna Chikwendu,
on or about the 6th day of August 2022, in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, dishonestly stole and converted to your own use, the sum of N13, 055,000.00 (Thirteen Million, Fifty Five Thousand Naira only), property of Olugbenga Adejuwon Managing Director OMDG Limited”.
Another count reads: “That you, Chinomso Uzonna Chikwendu,  on or about the 26th  day of January 2022,  in Lagos, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to defraud, had in your possession documents titled “Message Text” in which representation you knew was false.”
The defendant pleaded “not guilty” to the charge.
Following his plea, the prosecuting counsel, H.O.Daji, prayed the court for a trial date and for the remand of the defendant at the facility of the Nigerian Correctional Service.
The defence counsel, Obinna Okoli, informed the court about a pending bail application dated May 22, 2022 on behalf of the defendant.
Thereafter, Justice Okunuga adjourned till Thursday, June 2, 2022 for hearing of the bail application and also ordered that the defendant be remanded at the Ikoyi Correctional facility, Lagos.

Share this on WhatsApp