Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love





 
The Edo State High Court, Benin City, has convicted internet fraudster, Osakpolor Joseph Moses, who was prosecuted by the Benin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The presiding Judge, Justice Efe Ikponmwonba, delivering judgement, sentences the convict to two years imprisonment or an option of fine of N200,000, who pleaded guilty to the one-count charge of impersonation.
The EFCC in a statement by the Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, narrated that Moses was arraigned on one count charge of fraudulent impersonation. According to the commission, the charge reads: “that you, Osakpolor Joseph Moses between 2018 and 2022 in Benin City, Edo State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did fraudulently impersonate the identity of one Miller Wayne, a white man, with intent to defraud unsuspecting ladies and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 484 of the Criminal Code Cap 48 Laws of Bendel State of Nigeria (as applicable in Edo state) 1976.”
The EFCC said that on arraignment, the defendant pleaded guilty to the charge prompting the prosecution counsel, I.K. Agwai, to ask the court to convict and sentence him accordingly.
Justice Ikpombonwon, accordingly, convicted and sentenced Moses 2 years imprisonment with an option of N200, 000 fine. The court also ordered that item recovered during investigation which are proceeds of crime be forfeited to the Federal government of Nigeria.
In a related development, one Benwari Benjamin was on Wednesday arraigned by the EFCC on two count charge of issuance of dud cheque before Justice Ikponmwonba.
Benjamin, according to the EFCC, was alleged to have sometime in January 2021 issued a First Bank cheque of the sum of Eight Million Naira (N8,000,000) to one   “HEB WATER LIMITED” , a water producing factory in Benin City, Edo State, which upon presentation in the bank returned unpaid for insufficient fund.
The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge when it was read to him.
Justice Ikponmwonba granted the defendant bail in the sum N1 million with one surety in like sum. The surety must be resident in Benin.
The Judge also ordered both the surety and defendant to deposit 3 passport photographs with the court.
The case was adjourned to June 7, 2022, for trial.













Share this on WhatsApp