Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The chairman, Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Olumide Adeosun, has revealed the reasons cost of aviation fuel, Jet A1, is rising amid threats from airline operators to discontinue business.
Recall that airline operators have been lamenting about the impact of the rising aviation fuel on their operation, threatening to shut down their business in response to the hike in Jet A1 price.
The product skyrocketed to N700 per litre from N190, while the airline operators in March had increased ticket cost, with plan for further hike before the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) directed the firms to halt the price, labelling it price fixing.
According to Adeosun, the circumstances were beyond the control of the oil marketers in Nigeria, and had to do with global markets’ reaction to the Ukraine war amongst other reasons.
READ ALSO: FG to sanction oil marketers, others who contravene Weights and Measures Act
Oil marketers list reason for rise in aviation fuel priceROil marketers list reason for rise in aviation fuel price
He listed the Russia-Ukraine war, which was renewed on February 24, 2022, as a factor, mentioning rising inflation, as well as logistics and administration costs of the oil marketers.
Adeosun also faulted the foreign exchange scarcity for the rising cost, stating that these are reasons the oil marketers can’t supply at a cheaper cost. He explained that the international market was selling at a premium to the highest bidder.
“Russia controls over 30 per cent of production. What we are seeing is that traders are putting premium attention on the price of aviation fuel because all of us are scrambling for exactly the same barrel.
“So, the traders are paying premium attention to demand and supply and they are selling to the highest bidders only. We should try and look at the financial factors and the predominant driver, look at all of the issues around storage cost, administration cost, and, of course, you have to think about where you are going to buy your next round of products from.” Adeosun said.
READ ALSO:Fuel scarcity: NNPC calls for patience as oil marketers extend operation
Adeosun said domestic airlines should enter into long term contracts with oil marketers to avoid sudden rise in Jet A1, stating such deal is why their foreign counterparts are not complaining.
He explained that the foreign airlines are strategic in their business transactions with the oil marketers, by entering into a long term agreement, which gives them a long term security on the aviation fuel.
The Ardova boss explained that airlines can pre-empt the price of Jet A1 on a month-on-month basis by signing long-term contracts, which allows for long term product supply.
It was gathered that the domestic airlines only purchase fuel when they plan to fly, rather than a long term supply, like an Uber business, “You cannot do that when your business is dependent on the availability of fuel.
“Aviation fuel is not like petrol for taxis. You are not driving Uber. So, this is a very serious business that requires strategic planning.” Adeosun said.
Share this on WhatsApp