Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Extreme tiredness may indicate, in addition to a lack of time to rest, some diseases such as anemia, diabetes, thyroid disorders or even depression. Normally, in cases of illness, the person may feel tired and without strength, even if he or she has had a good night’s rest.
Therefore, when identifying frequent fatigue, it is necessary to observe if there are other associated symptoms. If so, you should go to the doctor for an evaluation and indicate the most appropriate treatment.
While waiting for the consultation, it is possible to consume guarana powder to combat fatigue, being this a natural stimulant of the organism. This powder can be purchased in health food stores or online stores.
The 8 diseases that can cause extreme tiredness:
1. Diabetes
Decompensated diabetes causes frequent tiredness because glucose does not reach all cells, causing lack of energy to perform daily tasks. In addition to this, excess sugar in the blood causes the individual to urinate more, lose weight and lose muscle mass, so it is common for diabetics with hypoglycemia to complain of muscle fatigue.
Which doctor to see: endocrinologist and nutritionist, who will indicate fasting blood glucose tests and glucose tolerance curve, helping to establish a nutritional plan according to the results of the tests and medical monitoring.
What to do to combat diabetes: you should take the medications prescribed by the doctor and be careful with your diet, avoiding foods rich in sugar, in addition to practicing regular physical activity.
What to do to fight diabetes: you should take the medications prescribed by your doctor and be careful with your diet, avoiding foods rich in sugar, in addition to practicing regular physical activity.
2. Anemia
The lack of iron in the blood can cause tiredness, drowsiness and discouragement. In women, this fatigue becomes even greater during menstruation, when iron reserves in the body decrease even more.
Which doctor to see: general practitioner and in the case of women, a gynecologist to evaluate if the menstrual flow is normal and there are no alterations such as menorrhagia, for example. To identify anemia, a hemogram is necessary.
What to do to combat anemia: iron-rich foods of animal and vegetable origin should be consumed daily, such as red meat, beets and beans. In some cases it may be necessary to use an iron supplement, which must be prescribed by a physician or nutritionist.
3. Sleep apnea
Sleep apnea is characterized by the lack of air in the lungs during sleep, which may occur for short periods of time, several times during the night, impairing the individual’s sleep and rest. When sleeping poorly, it is normal to wake up very tired, have muscle fatigue and feel sleepy during the day.
Which doctor to see: a specialist in sleep disorders, who may request a test called polysomnography to evaluate the person’s sleep process.
What to do to combat sleep apnea: it is important to diagnose the cause so that the doctor can indicate the best alternative to improve the person’s sleep. Thus, if the apnea is due to overweight or obesity, a diet and the use of a CPAP to sleep can be recommended. In case it is due to smoking, it is recommended to avoid it as well as the consumption of alcohol and sedative or tranquilizing medications, being important to consult a doctor to adjust the dose or change the medication.
4. Depression
One of the typical symptoms of depression is frequent physical and mental fatigue, in which the individual becomes discouraged to perform daily tasks and even to work. In spite of being an illness that affects the mental part of the person, it also ends up affecting the body.
Which doctor to go to: the most indicated doctor is the psychiatrist, since he/she will identify the signs and symptoms characteristic of depression and initiate the appropriate treatment, which includes medication.
What to do to combat depression: it is advisable to be accompanied by a psychologist or psychiatrist, the latter being the one who can prescribe the use of medication, depending on the severity of the condition. It is also important to carry out activities that were previously pleasurable, as this will modify the brain response and improve the person’s mood.
5. Fibromyalgia
In fibromyalgia there is frequent fatigue, which persists for years, in addition to an increased sensitivity to pain. The constant pain can cause difficulty concentrating and as it also affects sleep, the person wakes up tired, as if he/she had not rested at all during the night.
Which doctor to see: a rheumatologist who can order a series of tests to exclude other causes, however, the diagnosis of this disease is delayed and can take several years to arrive.
What to do to combat fibromyalgia: it is recommended to take the medications prescribed by the doctor to do exercises such as Pilates, Yoga or Swimming to promote stretching of the muscles and keep them strengthened to become more resistant to pain.
6. Heart Disease
Arrhythmia and clogged arteries can cause fatigue and frequent dizziness. In this case, the heart does not have enough strength to make a good contraction to send blood to the whole body and therefore the individual is always tired.
Which doctor to see: a cardiologist, who may order blood tests or an electrocardiogram.
What to do to combat heart disease: consult a cardiologist and take the prescribed medications. In addition to taking care of your diet, avoiding fats and sugars, and exercising under supervision.
7. Infections
Infections such as colds and flus can cause a lot of fatigue, because the body tries to use all its energy to fight the microorganisms involved. In addition to fatigue, other symptoms such as fever and muscle pain may be observed, which should be investigated by the physician.
Which doctor to see: a general practitioner, who may request blood tests or other more specific tests depending on the symptoms developed and, according to the results of the tests, the doctor may refer the person to a specialist, such as an infectologist.
What to do to fight infections: after finding out what the infection is, the doctor may prescribe medication to cure the disease. By following all medical recommendations, the disease will be cured and the fatigue and other symptoms will disappear.
8. Thyroid disorders
As the thyroid hormones are responsible for keeping the metabolism accelerated, when they are affected, fatigue appears.
Which doctor to see: an endocrinologist, who can order a TSH, T3 and T4 thyroid profile.
What to do to combat thyroid disorders: it is important to take the medications prescribed by the doctor to keep hormone levels under control, because this way the metabolism returns to normal and fatigue disappears.
How to combat tiredness and sleepiness
One of the best ways to combat fatigue is to have enough time for rest and restful sleep.
Scheduling a vacation can be a good option to decrease stress and work pace, but if this is not enough, you should consider dialing a medical consultation to investigate what may be causing the excessive tiredness.
In addition, it is recommended to lose weight, and if necessary, comply with medical treatment for diseases such as diabetes, infections and thyroid disorders.


Share this on WhatsApp