Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has spoken on the alleged expensive vehicles given to some of his associates in Kebbi.
Photos of the expensive cars which were allegedly given to some workers of Khadimiyya Foundation which the minister established had gone viral on social media.
The gifts had sparked different reactions with some claiming that Malami gave out the vehicles in a bid to get the governorship ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kebbi for the 2023 elections.
However, in an interactive session with newsmen in Birnin Kebbi, capital of Kebbi, on Tuesday, May 3, Malami personally cleared the air on the controversy, Daily Trust reported.
He said:“At this moment, I have experienced a barrage of attacks, left, right and centre, some are local and others international, an attack that has to do with an allegation that I shared many expensive vehicles to delegates of APC.
“As a person with some associates, neither I nor a friend of mine shared any vehicle to any delegate across the state.”
The AGF explained that it was his friends and associates who donated and distributed vehicles to long-term workers in the Khadimiyya Foundation, PM News also stated.
Malami said though he had an interactive session with APC stakeholders some days ago and had accepted calls from Kebbi people to run for the state governorship; the meeting was not for distribution of vehicles to any APC stakeholder.

The AGF reiterated that “there is no connection between the names of APC stakeholders and the beneficiaries of the vehicles and are not connected whatsoever.”
Earlier, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, declared his intention to contest the 2023 gubernatorial election in Kebbi state.
Malami was said to have presented himself in a good light by stating that he does not have a history of betrayal and as such, will not betray or fail the people if and when he assumes office.
He said: “If God in His mercies permits, and all goes well, I will as a politician contest the governorship of Kebbi state. I am seeking your support.
“I want to announce that I will contest indeed and as such I am counting on your prayers and support so that we can all work and survive the race together. I have no history of betrayal and I won’t betray you people. I will work for you,”
He pointed out that leaders need followers and followers in turn need their leaders in order to ensure that the citizens benefit, even as he promised to work day and night to turn the life of citizens around.
AGF Malami had previously told close friends of his intention to contest the Kebbi state election.
He certainly would be contesting under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and would be seeking to succeed the current Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, who is completing his second term.
In 2014, Malami picked nomination form to run for Kebbi State Governor under the platform of the APC, but lost to Bagudu in the party’s primary election.


Share this on WhatsApp