Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), got a boost of mass support across party line from leaders of the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the south to the north.
The party leaders in joint endorsement of Akpabio, stated: “The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has done well – more than any minister that has ever emerged in the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. He has changed the ministry completely’’
The APC and PDP leaders asserted that Akpabio, former Senate Minority Leader, is a go-getter, strategist, highly detribalized national leader, and an extraordinary man with extraordinary capacity for patience, tolerance, and hard work. They said that the needs a leader who has competence, courage, transparency, integrity, and patriotism.
They declared: “Nigeria needs quality and focused leadership. We need a president who the people know and trust. We need a leader with proven records of service. We are the foot soldiers of the South and North.
“Our next president must have strong vision, ability to articulate the vision and willingness to make changes.  The person must be compassionate, be in touch with the people and be able to galvanize them into action.
“Senator Godswill Akpabio is determined to work for the general wellbeing of Nigeria and Nigerians. He will change the pace of development, implement people-oriented programmes and transform Nigeria into a prosperous country.”
The party leaders and traditional rulers who gathered in Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State, further stated that ‘’Senator Godswill Akpabio has the requisite appeal and political structure to clinch the party’s presidential ticket.
“Senator Godswill Akpabio is the most suitable person to lead the country after the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari. He is destined for greatness. There is no doubt that the APC will retain the presidency in 2023. Akpabio will contest primary elections and will be the ruling party’s flag bearer.”
APC Northern Front led by Dr. Ibrahim Ahmed, and the PDP group led by Clement Odili, conveyed their support for Akpabio his declaration for the 2023 presidential race in Ikot Ekpene.
Share this on WhatsApp