Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It’s not just your eyes that are linked to the health of your blood vessels and heart. Food and drink can have an effect on your heart’s health as well as your vision. According to experts, there are some foods that can hurt your eyes if you eat a lot of them.
In this article, I will deliberate on the foods that are unhealthy for your well-being if consumed on a regular basis.
1. Fried food
Having high levels of LDL cholesterol puts you at risk for heart disease and stroke as well as type 2 diabetes. Trans fats found in deep-fried foods raise these levels. Also, trans fats make harmful free radicals. This is also linked to AMD and diabetic retinopathy.
The best way to fight free radical damage is to eat citrus fruits, tomatoes, and red bell peppers. This is because free radicals have been linked to an increased risk of cancer.
2. Margarine
Margarine is a vegetable oil-based product that has “good” fats in it. It may be better for you than butter. As a bonus, some margarine has trans fat, which raises cholesterol levels and increases the risk of heart disease and eye problems, among other things.
There is a link between the amount of trans fat in margarine and how hard it is. Instead of sticks, you can use spreads or liquids to make your food.
3. Canned Foods
It’s not very common for foods like soup, tomato sauce, and canned goods to have up to 75% more sodium than they should.
By cutting back on these things, you can lower your risk of hypertension and eye problems. For a healthy eye, herbs and spices can be added to your food to make it taste better.
4. Sugary foods
Soda, sports and energy drinks, lemonade, and a lot of other drinks that are sweetened with sugar are high in sugar. As a bonus, they’re a big source of calories and sugar.
If you eat a lot of sugar, you are more likely to get type 2 diabetes and heart disease. This can lead to other eye problems, like diabetic retinopathy and AMD. Water is the best thing you can do to keep your eyes healthy.
5. Pasta & Bread
Simple carbs like white bread and pasta have been linked to AMD, which is the most common cause of blindness in the elderly. Because this type of carbohydrate is quickly absorbed by the body, this is the reason why it is so good for you. Because of this, blood sugar levels go up.
6. Shell Fish
It’s not a problem if fish and shellfish are eaten in moderation. People who are pregnant or nursing should not be exposed to very high concentrations of it, because it can cause eye damage and other health problems.
7. Alcohol
Many people have had trouble with their eyes because of alcohol, even though it isn’t food. A common eye condition called cataracts can be caused by drinking too much alcohol when you are young. This can make the lens of your eye cloudy.
8. Coffee
If you drink coffee or tea in the morning, the caffeine in them could make your eye pressure go up. People who have glaucoma or who have high eye pressure are more likely to see their eye pressure rise after drinking caffeine. Excessive intraocular pressure can cause eye damage and even blindness.


Share this on WhatsApp