Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said his training and experience in governance serving as vice president under President Muhammadu Buhari would help him to lead the country effectively as president on the APC platform.
Osinbajo stated this while interacting with stakeholders and delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Jigawa on Saturday.
He said: “As vice president, the president has given me an opportunity that I do not think any other vice president has been given.”
The Vice-President added that the 2023 elections should be based on what should be the best for the country.
“We should make a decision based on the future of our children… we can make progress; we can move on. All I ask you to do is what is in the best interest of Nigeria; vote in the interest of our children,” he said.
READ ALSO: President 2023: Osinbajo, Tinubu, set for showdown over APC ticket  
Also speaking with journalists after the meeting, Osinbajo said that he was happy with the interactions with the Jigawa delegates.
He said: “Obviously, all the issues that we discussed are issues that concern the country very significantly.
“We talked about agriculture, we talked about youth empowerment, education, technology and a wide variety of issues. I think it was extremely fruitful, and at least we all understand where we are coming from and where we ought to be in the few years ahead.
Delegates, who spoke during the interactive session, included members of the state House of Assembly, local government officials as well as grassroots politicians and women leaders.
They also commended the contributions of the vice president to the initiative, while citing other achievements of the Buhari administration such as the efforts to make fertiliser available and affordable as witnessed in the state.
Others at the interactive session highlighted the reputation of the vice president as “a man of proven integrity and fear of God,” in addition to his “excellent track record, loyalty and support of Mr. President.”
Several delegates also called for the expansion of the Social Investment Programme should Osinbajo emerge president in 2023 while providing federal support to the state’s agrarian economy.
Share this on WhatsApp