Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Our eyes are the lamps for our bodies. When the eyes are in darkness, the entire body is susceptible to danger. Our eyes are the major organs that help in protecting the body from diseases and infections.
Imagine when you are trying to drink a cup of water and you look at it before drinking it. It can save you from drinking a mosquito egg or an insect. The importance of our eyes cannot be overemphasized.
Sadly, there are things we do, either intentionally or unknowingly, that can damage our eyes. The following are the things we do that can damage our eyes:
1. Some of us excessively expose our eyes to the ultraviolet rays of the sun. According to WebMD, this can damage our eyes. We should be using sunglasses whenever we are exposed to the sun, particularly with the kind of hot sun we have in this part of the world.
2. Some of us engage in activities that can damage our eyes. There’s this particular spark of light that happens when welders are welding irons together. Some of us look at that light. If you’re not wearing a welder’s mask, please don’t look at that spark of light. It can damage your eyes.
3. When your eyes are always exposed to smoke or you are addicted to smoking, especially Indian hemp or even tobacco, it can cause eye diseases such as cataracts.
4. Some of us drink alcohol without control, and we think we’re having a good time now. However, this is gradually damaging some of the cells in your eyes, which can eventually lead to blurred vision.
If you know that you can’t stop drinking immediately, at least for the sake of your eyes, limit it to drinking moderately.
5. Some people abuse the use of eye drops whenever there’s any redness in their eyes. Too much use of eye drops can affect the normal flow of blood to your eyes. This can cause some eye problems in the long run.
6. Some of us spend almost all our time throughout the day and night behind the screen. If we’re not watching TV, we are usually watching something on our phones or laptops.
Too much of this can eventually damage your eyes. For those of us who are always working with our phones, ensure you set the screen of your phone to an eyecare display.


Share this on WhatsApp