Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Nigerian Communication Commission has commended members of the National Information Technology Reporters’ Association (NITRA) for their contribution to the development of the Nigerian telecom sector, and also reiterated its commitment to maintaining the age-long tradition of mutually beneficial relationship with the media.
Dr. Ikechukwu Adinde, Director of Public Affairs of NCC, gave the assurance at a capacity building session organized by the Commission for members of the National Information Technology Reporters’ Association (NITRA), Abuja branch, on Thursday.
Adinde said that the NCC recognizes the importance of NITRA as a strategic ally, adding that this accounts for why the Commission has on several occasions provided capacity building and trainings for members of NITRA with the aim of providing the platform for equipping NITRA as its stakeholders and partners from the Media with the knowledge and skill required to do their jobs effectively, efficiently and in the most professional manner.
READ ALSO: LCCl seeks NCC’s partnership on 2022 ICTEL Expo
“As you may be aware, the communications sector, which the NCC regulates, is arguably the most dynamic and vibrant sector of the Nigerian economy, and we believe this demands that our media partners are brought up to speed with recent developments for enhanced and well-informed reportage of the industry,” the DPA said.
“Thus, the need for your sustained support as we continue to discharge our mandate of regulating this dynamic sector for the benefit of Nigerians and the economy cannot be over-emphasized.
“The implication of this meeting, therefore, is to further impress on your consciousness that the fate of Nigeria’s telecommunications industry, especially in the media will continue to be squarely entrusted to your good and capable hands.
“So, I want to use this opportunity to call on NITRA and all its members to remain supportive of NCC’s programmes, activities and initiatives. We urge you to continue to demonstrate the enthusiasm and professionalism which have informed adequate and factual reportage by your members over the years.
“On our part, we will continue to work with members of your association to accomplish your goals and objectives which have defined our shared interests in building the telecom sector for the greater good of Nigeria.
READ ALSO: NCC advises consumers on ways to manage data (Video)
Speaking earlier, President of NITRA, Abuja Chapter, Mr. Blessing Olaifa, represented by the chapter’s Secretary, Emmanuel Elebeke, expressed the organisation’s profound appreciation to NCC for organising the capacity building programme for its members.
He noted that the relationship between the Commission and the media organization has been a very cordial one spanning over many years, adding that it was a thing of joy that the age long mutually beneficial relationship has been sustained by the current management.
“I want to commend you for your consistency in churning out progressive policies and regulations that have positioned NCC as a pace setter in Africa. Nigeria today boasts of 6 submarine cables with more to come courtesy of NCC’s visionary management and quality regulation.”
The group then appealed to the Commission to institute ICT awards to encourage journalists to up their game.

Share this on WhatsApp