Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo, Anthony Aziegbemi, and the Vice chairman, Edo Central, Archbishop Tony Okosun, at the State Secretariat in Benin City, commended former Minister of Works, Arch. Mike Onolememen, a senatorial aspirant in Edo Central Senatorial District, for his constant support for the party in the state.  Onolememen was at the Edo State PDP Secretariat on a consultation visit to members of the State Working Committee.
Aziegbemi, during a consultation meeting, described Onolememen, the Adolor of Uromi kingdom, as a true party man with a good heart. According to the State Chairman, “It’s tough when you want to speak about the person you know very well. Arch. Mike Onolememen is a party man. You will recall before the 2015 election; I was given the mandate to conduct the party activities and that was the major activity with many people. “How do you co-ordinate massive activities of people without finance? When I was mandated to chair that committee, I looked up, looked down and looked ahead, he was the obvious choice. And when I told him and he told me don’t worry, I will handle all the finances. And this was major financing.
“So, somebody who could do that then, what do you think he would do when he gets to the National Assembly?
“Ladies and gentlemen, I believe before us is a man with a good heart, and a man who inspires vision.
“So, Dr Mike Ozeiegbe Onolememen, we know you and we believe you will win. We pray that God will bless the work of your hands. God bless you and we wish you well.”

Archbishop Tony Okosun commneded Onolememen for standing by the party during a difficult period.
Okosun asserted that Onolememen has paid his dues for the PDP, encouraging party members to give him the needed support towards the 2023 election.
Okosun declared: “We have seen a beautiful bride, a beautiful bride in the sense that I was a state treasure of this party when he was minister and I know what he did. Mr. Chairman, when he was a minister, when we had no governor and he was in this party. You know we worked for some people currently in the National Assembly, today, they don’t know the secretariat office of the party.
“We know Arch Mike Onolememen very well; he is a party man.
“Mr. Chairman, I have investigated the papers and I am convinced he is the man of the moment; the legal advice and the documents are correct. He has assisted the party.
“Mr. Chairman, we are aware of the man seated here. When he was minister, Benin-Ore road became a different thing, Benin-Okene road was awarded. Iruah, Uromi, up to Abraka road was awarded. The project is ongoing but we have people who are currently docile who don’t see the need to have the projects completed. “Sir, I am sure with the man seated here, all we want you to do is to give us go ahead and start the campaign and get him elected.”
Share this on WhatsApp