Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveVice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Saturday took his consultation and lobby for support to party stakeholders and delegates in Jigawa State. Vice President Osinbajo in an interactive session with the APC delegates and stakeholders in Dutse, which he described as very fruitful conversations, said that his main message for the 2023 elections, was that decisions, for instance on the choice of a presidential candidate, should be based on what is in Nigeria’s best interest.
Vice President Osinbajo was received in  Dutse  by a crowd of supporters, at the airport and on the streets, APC Chieftains and senior state government officials led by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Abdulkadir Fanini Adamu, who represented  Governor Muhammad Badaru Abubakar, who was out of town at the time of the visit.
At the townhall style interaction with the delegates, which also featured a Questions and Answers session, the Vice President restated his view that decisions about the 2023 elections be  based on what is best for the country, its destiny and future as a nation.
According to Prof. Osinbajo, “we should make a decision based on the future of our children… We can make progress; we can move on. All I ask you to do is what is in the best interest of Nigeria; vote in the interest of our children.”
He also restated how his training and experience in governance serving as VP under President Muhammadu Buhari, would help him to lead the country effectively as president in 2023, if given the ticket and elected under the APC platform.
“As Vice President, the President has given me an opportunity that I do not think any other vice president has been given,” he said.
Later while speaking during a brief chat with the media after the meeting, Prof. Osinbajo noted that that he was happy with the interactions with the Jigawa delegates.
“Obviously, all the issues that we discussed are issues that concern the country very significantly. We talked about agriculture, we talked about youth empowerment, education, technology, and a wide variety of issues.
“I think it was extremely fruitful, and at least we all understand where we are coming from and where we ought to be in the few years ahead. All of us are very happy that we were able to have this engagement.”
Delegates who spoke during the interactive session, included members of the State House of Assembly, Local Government officials, grassroot leaders and women leaders.
Many of the delegates spoke about the successes of the Social Investment Programmes (SIP), especially the National Homegrown School Feeding programme, which the delegates recalled offered first time jobs for several women. They also commended the contributions of the VP in that respect, while praising other achievements of the Buhari administration, including the efforts to make fertilizer available and affordable, a benefit much enjoyed in Jigawa State.
Others at the interaction highlighted the reputation of the VP as “a man of proven integrity and fear of God,” and his “excellent track record, loyalty and support of Mr. President.”
Generally, several delegates expressed the wish that if and when the VP becomes elected as President he should expand the SIP, ensure youth and women engagements in government, while providing Federal support to Jigawa State agrarian economy.
Share this on WhatsApp