Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love
The leading presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has unveiled his policy he idented as Unity SEED framework. The former vice president, in a statement on Sunday explained that the policy thrust is the right antidote that will restore unity and peace to the country.
Former Vice President stated that the framework is encapsulated in a 5-point policy priorities that he intends to implement as President of Nigeria. These, he said, include uniting the country, tackling insecurity, rebuilding the national economy, promoting 21st century education reforms and devolution of more resources and responsibilities to the states.
Accordingly, Atiku is prepared to provide answers to the lingering national and political questions in Nigeria towards promoting national interest, national development in consolidating the country’s nation building.
The potential Nigerian president has shown commitment to human capital development, strengthening capacity building and capacity utilization in the Nigerian economy, as well as resolving the issue of restructuring/devolution of powers.
Atiku also promised an all-inclusive government, insisting that every part of the country must participate in the governance system.
Atiku’s statement on Sunday reads:
“The past two weeks have been quite busy and I am sure you know why. As the day to the special convention of our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) inches in, it becomes expedient for me to go through states across the country and have consultations with esteemed delegates of our party.
“It has been quite hectic. But it has been fun, as well. Because of the security concerns that have almost consumed our national map, it has been a bit hectic. However, having to go through the trenches to have physical meetings with party leaders and cheerful party members is something that keeps me excited all the time. It affords me the opportunity to have a feel of life at the different locations of the country.
“It is disappointing to see how off-the-track things have become. But the good news from every location I have visited thus far, from Ibadan to Owerri, Birnin Kebbi to Port-Harcourt, is that everyone believes that my policy plan, encapsulated in the Unity-SEED framework, is the right antidote that will restore unity and peace to the country.
“Dear Atikulator, you may want to ask, “What is Unity-SEED all about?”
“During my official declaration in March to run for President in 2023, I made mention of the 5-point policy priorities that I am interested in as President which include the following: uniting the country, tackling insecurity, rebuilding the national economy, promoting a 21st century education reforms and devolution of more resources and responsibilities to the states.
“These five themes are inter-related in the sense that without unity, the other four themes cannot be achieved. So, as president, my number one priority will be to unite Nigerians as #OnePeople, with #OneFuture and #OneCountry.
“Under my plan, no part of Nigeria will be discriminated against or left behind. With inclusivity, the challenge of ensuring the security of the country becomes easier.
“Like I told delegates of PDP during my tours, what I plan to do is a reinvention of the Government of National Unity, which our administration under President Olusegun Obasanjo undertook in 1999.  It is a plan that will bring all Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora together as brothers and sisters in nation-building.
“My plan to rebuild the economy is directly anchored on the plan to invest in education and innovation. The base power of any economy is the base knowledge of its people. Therefore, my economic plan is to promote private sector initiatives that will key into the policy designs of the government.
“The other component of my agenda is devolution of power and resources to state and local governments. It is a policy framework that will bring the actual art of governance closer to the people by granting them greater power and much-needed resources so that they can focus on their local needs/priorities. By so doing, the people will have control over their lives.
“Let me remind you again, fellow compatriot, that the Special Convention of the PDP is only a few days away. I will be counting on your support in reaching out to a delegate from your locality to cast their vote for me at the primary election.
“I know that as ONE, we can get the task of making our dear country, Nigeria, great again.”
Share this on WhatsApp