Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
 
Ecobank Nigeria has concluded arrangements to hold a consumer-focused and investment-oriented webinar titled “Today’s Opportunities for Your Money; Making the Best of the Moment”.
The webinar, slated for May 6, 2022, by 11am is in commemoration of Workers’ day and it will feature a carefully selected panel of speakers; notably Jimi Ogbobine, Head of Agusto Consulting, business experts from the bank’s Treasury and Consumer Products teams, as well as Ecobank Development Corporation (EDC), the bespoke investment arm of the Ecobank Group.
The registration link is https://bit.ly/3OHw35s
Speaking ahead of the event, Korede Demola-Adeniyi, Head, Consumer Banking, Ecobank Nigeria, said the webinar will focus essentially on the investment opportunities available to customers and non-customers considering current macro-economic realities, adding that it will also provide a guide to investment in key sectors and the banks offerings to help them get the best out of today’s financial landscape.
READ ALSO: Ecobank drags Osibodu to court over alleged N8.7bn debt
According to her, “The purely virtual webinar is designed for workers,  salary earners, business owners and open to everyone. A consumer banking webinar of this magnitude is one of the numerous ways we retain our leading position as a Pan-African Bank and our customers’ preferred financial partner and this year’s Workers’ Day celebration gives us another opportunity to provide them value that goes beyond banking.”
She further explained that “In putting together this webinar, our goal is to provide every individual; irrespective of their location, class or income range, and the right financial advice to help them unlock maximum value for their money. People work hard for their money and they deserve to acquire the insights that will help them put their money to work. We believe this webinar will help them achieve that.”
While imploring members of the public to join the webinar, Mrs. Demola-Adeniyi maintained: “The webinar is bound to provide financial education and financial planning tips to our customers and every other participant. “Participants will be informed about relevant investment opportunities to create wealth and most importantly, how the bank can be useful to them at this time. “It is important to make an informed decision regarding how to manage your money.”
Ecobank Nigeria Ltd. is a subsidiary of the Ecobank Group, the leading Pan-African banking group with operations in 33 African countries and an international presence in four locations (London, Paris, Beijing, and Dubai). Ecobank Nigeria is a full-service bank providing wholesale, retail, investment and transaction banking services and products to governments, financial institutions, multinationals, international organizations, medium, small and micro businesses and individuals.
Ecobank is a major player in the distribution of financial services in Nigeria, leveraging digital platforms including Ecobank Mobile App and USSD *326#, Ecobank Online, Ecobank OmniPlus, Ecobank Omnilite, EcobankPay, Ecobank RapidTransfer, ATMs, POSs and an extensive distribution network of over 250 branches and over 50,000 agency banking locations.
 
Share this on WhatsApp