Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Monday in Abuja demolished scavengers’ camp and illegal markets at Lugbe on Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Road.
Mr Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, who led the exercise, said that the activities of scavengers and the illegal markets constitute nuisance to the area.
He explained that Lugbe Federal Housing Authority Estate junction Phase 1 and 2, Lugbe by Berger Yard “are very sensitive areas that need to meet up with the best standards.’’
Attah, who said illegal acts would not be allowed to continue in the areas, said ñthat the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello after inspecting the area with the taskforce team, directed the team to ensure that sanity was maintained in the area.
“We cleared shanties and scavengers on the Airport Road sometimes ago but suddenly the illegal activities are gradually returning.
“The FCT minister visited Lugbe on Saturday and directed that serious action must be taken.
“The FCT commissioner of Police, Sunday Babaji who plays key role in the operation, also insisted that all the illegal activities that paved way for criminal acts on the road must be checked.”
Attah said that many of the demolished illegal shanties were suspected criminal hideouts, where hoodlums smoke marijuana and other illicit drugs freely.
“Innocent members of the public, who have been complaining bitterly about activities of these unbecoming activities around Lugbe on the Airport Road, can now sleep with their two eyes closed.”
Reacting to the exercise, a trader, whose illegal structure was affected by the demolition, Mrs Rukiyat Abiodun decried the frequent dislodging of their shops by FCT officials.
She said that government should consider the traders plight, saying “demolition of our shops is not good, there should be a way of checking activities of the scavengers.’’
Mr Emmanuel Aigbokhai, a resident said the exercise would stop criminal activities caused by the scavengers and illegal markets around the area.
Share this on WhatsApp