Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The Vice Chancellor of Lead City University, Ibadan, Prof. Kabiru Aderemi Adeyemo has described the new syllabus launched by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria as new transformation and development to all members of the institute.
During the virtual launch in Lagos of the new educational Syllabus as well as new Membership Certificate, Prof. Adeyemo said the new syllabus will reflect the attitudes, orientation and behavior of members towards greater value, professional ideals and practices.
While reiterating Lead City University commitment to the MoU signed with ICSAN which aims to deepen the standards of learning and dissemination of corporate governance, Prof. Adeyemo said Curriculum development means a lot in setting the direction of change in an organization, not only at the micro but also at macro levels.
READ ALSO: ICSAN deepens corporate governance, unveils practice guide, stamp
The don said with the rapid advancements in information technology and its disruptions, the impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning have made the strategic change (tailored Curricula) imperative.
“The new syllabus was developed in line with the, “institute’s resolve to continue to produce future-ready Chartered Secretaries and Administrators with skills and competences desired by the market. I urge the members to uphold the tenet of transparency, accountability and integrity in the leadership of the institute,” he charged.
 
Earlier in his opening remarks, the President /Chairman of Governing Council ICSAN, Mr. Taiwo Owokolade, said the upgrade was imperative to accommodate advancement in technology and its disruptions in global operating systems.
“By virtue of our foresightedness, we deemed it necessary to make our members the pace setters by reviewing our curricula to give them the requisite knowledge and skills for the tasks ahead,”
On the institute’s new certificate, ICSAN boss maintained that it was redesigned to spot out counterfeit as the improved one with security emblem carries the picture of the bearer which provides more information at a glance than the regular one.
“The system has changed. We have to ensure that we position our members rightly as events unfold. The challenges in the environment triggered us to think of a quality certificate higher than the challenges and one which has what it takes to be a modern certificate,” he stressed.
Also speaking at the virtual event, the Chairman, Education Committee of ICSAN, Oluwole Adewunmi, said the institute partnered the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, United Kingdom, for the preparation of their members to acquire requisite knowledge and skills.
Adewunmi noted that the previous syllabus, which was locally prepared catered to local peculiarities with minimum international standards, stressing that the new syllabus review was done significantly to accommodate the huge changes in the global operating environment.
“We upgraded the institute’s four core subject’s areas: From corporate governance to corporate governance (Private & Public), and from just corporate administration to corporate administration and risk management.
“The third and fourth are from financial management to financial management and strategy, and from corporate secretary-ship to corporate secretary-ship and board dynamics respectively,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp