Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi has taken his circuit run for delegates’ votes as far as Kaduna where Gov. Nasir el-Rufai and the state APC delegates earlier endorsed party leader Bola Tinubu for the presidential primary.
Amaechi sold himself to the governor and the delegates as the most agile and the most experienced of the aspirants.
“I will continue with President Buhari’s Agricultural transformations to address hunger,” he said, adding that the present administration had inherited poverty but has been able to change the situation positively,” he said in Kaduna on Sunday.
“You need to vote for a candidate that will protect and provide for all regardless of region, religion and tribe and that is what am promising you.”
In turn, el-Rufai sold also him whatever was left after Tinubu’s endorsement.
“Many people contesting elections always say delegates won’t make heaven because they don’t keep promise,” said the governor who describe Amaechi as a confidant and loyalist.
“But I always say Kaduna delegates are different.”
He said the delegates were in a hurry, and never waited for what other aspirants—after Tinubu—would say.
“Amaechi is here and I told you that, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo is also coming after him. Governor Kayode Fayemi is also coming. Also, my big brother, Pastor Tunde Bakare, is also coming. As a result of that, you should be prepared and know what to tell them,” the governor said.
He struggled to put in some words for Amaechi, though.
“Who is your friend? Who is your loyalist? Ok your friend and your loyalist is someone who remembered you when you had nothing and nobody was with you. Amaechi gave that support, he did it for Buhari and he did it for me,” he said.
According to him, Amaechi, a PDP governor then, gave the CPC money to hold its convention before the 2011 before its merger with Tinubu’s ACN and others
“Since then, President Muhammadu Buhari asked me to continue talking to him.
“When they were thinking of defecting to APC, we used to meet with the seven governors before two chickened out. Amaechi turned his back against his own neighbour, Goodluck Jonathan and said he was going to follow Buhari.
“He held on to that trust. That is why Daura Emirate gave him that title of Dan Amanan Daura.”
Share this on WhatsApp