Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
62-year-old popular actor, Kevin Spacey has been charged with four counts of sexual assault against three men by Britain’s Crown Prosecution Service.
The charges follow a review of the evidence gathered by the Metropolitan Police in its investigation,” Rosemary Ainslie, Head of the CPS Special Crime Division, said in a statement on Thursday.
The cases arose from complaints filed at different times between March 2005 and April 2013.
Two complaints of sexual assault were filed against Spacey in March 2005 in London. The third was filed, also in London in August 2008 and this alleged that Spacey caused a person to engage in penetrative sexual activity without consent.
According to the Crown Prosecution, fourth case of sexual assault was filed by another complainant against the actor in April 2013 in Gloucestershire.
READ ALSO: Man in court for performing unauthorised surgery which resulted in death of patient
“The Crown Prosecution Service reminds all concerned that criminal proceedings against Mr Spacey are active and that he has the right to a fair trial,” Ainslie said in a statement posted on CPS website.
“It is extremely important there should be no reporting, commentary or sharing of information online which could in any way prejudice these proceedings.
“The function of the CPS is not to decide whether a person is guilty of a criminal offence, but to make fair, independent and objective assessments about whether it is appropriate to present charges for a criminal court to consider.
“The CPS assessment of any case is not in any sense a finding of, or implication of, any guilt or criminal conduct. It is not a finding of fact, which can only be made by a court, but rather an assessment of what it might be possible to prove to a court, in accordance with the Code for Crown Prosecutors.
In 2020, Spacey similarly faced sexual assault charge in United States, dating to acts committed in the 1980.
The case was filed by another actor Anthony Rapp and an anonymous man, both of whom accuse Mr. Spacey of sexual offenses against them in the 1980s when they were about 14 years old.
READ ALSO: Popular actor quits movie role over forced COVID vaccine mandate
Nearly three years ago, Mr. Rapp accused Mr. Spacey of having made a sexual advance toward him when he was underage, the first in a series of sexual misconduct accusations against Mr. Spacey halted his acting career.
The lawsuit, filed in New York Supreme Court in Manhattan, includes new allegations that Mr. Spacey sexually assaulted a teenage boy whom he met in an acting class in Westchester County in the early 1980s.
According to the lawsuit, Mr. Spacey invited his acting student to his apartment and “engaged in sexual acts” with him on multiple different occasions. In their final encounter, Mr. Spacey assaulted the teenager despite his resisting and saying “no,” the lawsuit said.
Share this on WhatsApp