Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love



Prof. Olawunmi Macaulay-Adeyelure, a Senior Lecturer, Lagos State University (LASU) has declared that only deliberate investment in education can guarantee a turnaround of Nigeria’s situation and emancipate the nation from current challenges.

The professor of philosophy made this remarks at a round table tagged  “Beyond School Certificate: Is School a Scam?” organised by the Xtra-Teacher Initiative for the 229 graduating students of the New Era Girls Senior Secondary School, in Surulere, Lagos.

The initiative founded by a Lagos State public school teacher, Mrs Victoria Abiola, as a personal project to enlighten students on the importance of education set out to among other things also help channel the carreer paths of the youngsters.

Speaking, Macaulay-Adeyelure, who graduated from the same school in 199I, said that education, above all other benefits, would bring peaceful cooperation and co-existence for the betterment of the society.

“Education makes the society a better place, it gives you freedom and makes you able to see things from divergent views.

“Cooperation and co existence is a very good work of education, it emancipate one from mental slavery which could be religious or tradition.

“It helps people to understand the law and why it was meant for them. It reduces lawlessness drastically in the society,” she said.

According to the don, Nigeria needs to overhaul the educational sector and make sure people understand the reasons why they need to be in school and forget the idea of white collar job.

“I chose to say that education is not a scam. Our youths are losing hope in the education as many are regretting why they went to school.

“The importance of education can never be over emphasized, Education is one of the basic needs of human being, it is important for any kind of development,” the professor said.

According to him, the purpose of education is to enlighten the individual and develop his/her capacity to the limit and to make the right decisions in life and to perform optimally.

Advising the graduating students, Mrs Morayo Afolabi-Brown, a TV presenter stressed that right values and skills for the betterment of the society and individuals are inculcated in schools.

Mr Adegboyega Oyinboade, a Health and Safety Manager for the Africa Region of Bristow Helicopters, urged the students to prioritise education and strive for excellence.

In her remarks, Mrs Olamide Akintolu, a keynote speaker, digital marketer, serial entrepreneur, and advocate for education said that education remained the key, hence the need to take it serious.

The convener, Abiola, said that she founded the initiative when she saw the need to educate her learners with adaptability and survivals skills beyond teaching core subjects in the four walls of the classroom.

According to her, the philosophy is to change the thinking pattern of these students through well-planned exposition, re-orientation, success modelling and mentoring, heart to heart counselling and psycho-social support among many others.

Abiola said: “Our society is turning into a mess and we refuse to watch things deteriorate further.

“The organisation has the vision to train 100,000 secondary students in 20 years in different areas of competencies, life skills and other 21st century skills in a bid to prepare them for the future ahead and harnessing best potential.

“This is borne out of the worrisome pattern among the majority of graduands from public secondary schools, who are mostly from indigent backgrounds; who fail to further their education.”

She added that her  Xtra-Teacher Youth Project is one of the many initiatives of the organisation geared toward improving the lives of secondary school students and preparing them for post-secondary school.








Share this on WhatsApp