Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has urged parents and guardians to pay closer attention to their children and wards.
She gave the advice on Tuesday during the year 2022 Eid-El-Fitr Celebration in Ikeja, organised by the First Family and the Lagos State Government to commemorate the end of the holy month of Ramadan.
The governor’s wife said that parents should be the friends of their children, so as to attend to all that concerned them.
”As we bask in the euphoria of this sacred celebration, it is also important to seize the opportunity of this spiritual exercise to admonish our children and youths to shun all ungodly, immoral, and bestial acts.
”As parents and guardians too, we must lead by example and pay closer attention to the totality of what concerns our children and wards.
“It is okay to intrude into their privacy and ensure that we guide them on the right path.
”More importantly, let us be their true and sincere friends, so that we can earn their trust and confidence to discuss everything with us. That way, we have the unique opportunity to put things right,” she said.
She charged Muslim faithful that beyond Ramadan, they should imbibe and sustain the principles of the holy month, which amongst others included peace, kindness, compassion and happy co-existence.
According to her, Prophet Mohammed held these principles in high esteem and lived His whole life around them.
Mrs Sanwo-Olu said that it was also important to allow all these virtues to reflect in one’s actions, public conduct and interpersonal relations with everyone, long after Ramadan.
”This way, we will improve on the cordial relationship that exists among the various ethnic groups and adherents of different religions in our state,” she said.
In his vote of thanks, the Commissioner for Home Affairs, Mr Anofiu Elegushi, said that the 30 days of Ramadan exercise had helped in reshaping lives and dispositions of Muslim faithful.
Elegushi, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Mr Sewedo Whenu, commended the efforts of Islamic scholars, who taught on various topics of human endeavour during the Ramadan period.
Share this on WhatsApp