Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, (HURIWA) on Monday, said powerful forces bent on causing anarchy in the country are behind the recent abduction Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence, Samuel Kanu Uche, and many other kidnappings of Christian leaders in the country.
HURIWA, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, lamented the rising abduction of Christian clerics, urging the security agents to put an end to the negative trend.
“The kidnappings of clerics has been escalated and it seems there is a well-crafted agenda to destroy organised religion of Christianity by some forces bent on establishing anarchy in Nigeria and the security forces seem to have collapsed under the heavy weight of crass incompetence, lack of professionalism and indiscipline and the rudderless political leadership structures in Nigeria.
READ ALSO: HURIWA raises alarm, Anambra attacks politically motivated  
The respected cleric of the Methodist Church was abducted over the weekend along Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway, in Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State.
He was kidnapped alongside Rt. Rev. Dennis Mark, the Methodist Bishop of Owerri and the Prelate’s Chaplain by gunmen.
Also, just this month, Rev. Fr.  Alphonsus Uboh of St. Pius X Parish IkotAbasi in the Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State was kidnapped.
Rev. Fr. Uboh’s abduction occurred barely three weeks after the Founder of Solid Rock Kingdom Church, Apostle John Okoriko was abducted by gunmen in his church premises at Ibekwe Akpan Nya in the same Mkpat Enin LGA.
In March, Reverend Father Joseph Bako of the St John Catholic Church, Kudenda in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State was kidnapped and he died in the kidnappers’ den.
Two Reverend father and their domestic staff were hijacked from the rectory of their Parish in Katsina under Sokoto Diocese which is headed by Right Reverend Doctor Mathew Hassan-Kukah who has of recent come under massive verbal threats by Islamists.
Lamenting the spate of the abduction of clerics, the Christian Association of Nigeria said non state actors now target clerics engaged in their pastoral duty across the country.
Reacting, HURIWA’s Onwubiko said, “The menace of kidnapping has again showed the failure of Nigeria’s current security architecture.
READ ALSO: HURIWA raises red alerts of alleged plot to kill Bishop Kukah
HURIWA expressed shock that the incidents of kidnappings are increasing and governors and the Federal Government lack the capacity to think through alongside their legislative houses to come out with the best legal and crime fighting approaches to tackle these problems.
“The ugly incidents have shown President Muhammadu Buhari’s incompetence and absent mindedness towards breakdown of law and order. His attitude compounded the situation because whilst President Buhari is constantly flying around the world, his security chiefs that are grossly incompetent are simply left to watch armed non-state actors such as terrorists, kidnappers’ mass killers to continue to hold Nigerians hostage.
“There is more to it than meets the eye in the kidnapping of clerics and HURIWA sternly warn security agencies to stop the trend before the descent to full anarchy. Who really is afraid of the spread of Christianity in the North and across Nigeria?


Share this on WhatsApp