Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


Chimbu Skeleton Tribe
A single glance at this tribe will send shivers down your spine, and if you see them in the flesh, chances are that you will definitely run away. It is said that the Chimbu Tribe dresses in this way for their specific festival, the Mount Hagen Festival. The paint on their bodies was originally designed to psychologically frighten enemies and also to have them pictured as superhuman. The Chimbu Skeleton Tribe lives in an isolated mountainous region of Papua New Guinea. Their first contact with the outer world was made in 1934. They are traditionally not much of a political entity, but rather more of an ethnic and linguistic group. This tribe speaks Kuman and other related dialects. Although they do stand illusive, painted like skeletons, no one should ever try to mess with them.
Number Nine The Mursi Tribe is a pretty big tribe that exists in Ethiopia. This tribe has a very unique and fascinating culture. As per the 2007 natural census, there are 11,500 Mursi living in Ethiopia. Surrounded by many other African tribes, the Mursi’s home is in one of the most isolated regions in all Ethiopia. There is often a certain amount of tension due to the proximity to other outside tribes, which results in some conflicts. Known as the Komorow, a shaman or priest takes the task of communicating with the sacred sky god known as Tamwee to protect themselves from their surrounding communities and outsiders. The women in their tribe even wear a disc made of clay or wood on their lower lips in the belief that it avoids people’s evil eyes. The Mursi Men have a motto that it’s better to die than live without killing. So, it’s a very good idea to avoid wandering into their territory.
The Dslala TribeThe Dslala Tribe is ranked eighth. Also known as the Korubo Tribe, the Dslala tribe is one of the indigenous groups of people in Brazil and is also considered one of the most isolated people in the world. It is a very small tribe, consisting of only 150 people. When we imagine the Amazonian tribes, we mostly think of those movies with some adventurous stories about people having poisoned darts and excellent hunting skills. However, such descriptions are not far away from reality when it comes to the Korubo Tribe. In Portuguese, this group is called calceteiros, which means clubbers, not the partying kind, but the weapon-wielding kind. This kind of makes us feel that this certain nickname represents their reputation for violence, as nicknames do tend to stick. Even though the truth is that most violence done to the tribe by outsiders is done by outsiders, having poison darts makes it a strong reason for us not to mess with them.
The Aghori TribesThis group has the image of being crazy and cannibalistic. The Aghoris are a small group of very devout Hindus who have taken their devotion to a completely different level. They perform most of their rituals and activities in the area around the Ganges in India, where burials are carried out and dead corpses are put into the river. Aghoris hold their faith in God, creating everything beautifully. This means that, to them, nothing is too small or primary to not be considered beautiful. This belief even consists of eating human flesh or their own excrement. As weird as it sounds to us commoners, the Aghoris find the Shamshan, where the dead are burnt, their favourite place for prayer.


Share this on WhatsApp