Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveA Non-Political affiliated group, the League of Achina Women Professionals, (LAW-P), has urged Governor Charles Soludo of Anambra to declare a state of emergency in the educational sector of the state.
The President of LAW-P, Mrs Chinwe Ezenwa-Mbah, made the call during an N80 million Fund Raising Ceremony to usher in the new executives in Lagos on Monday.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the LAW-P is a group of professional indigenous women of Achina town in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra.
The group’s mission is to promote sustainable health, education and socio-economic development at Achina.
Ezenwa-Mbah urged the new government in the state to take salient actions that would reverse the pathetic situations of government-owned schools.
She advocated the need to make education accessible to all as a panacea to end poverty and insecurity.
“It is regrettable that the number of out of school children is becoming alarming and it is a failure on the part of the government at all levels.
“The government has the constitutional responsibility to ensure the education of all Nigerian children,” she said.
Contributing, the immediate past president of the group, Dr Adaku Aniebue, called on the government to apply the same zeal with which it fights insecurities to ensure that all Nigerian children are enrolled in schools.
Aniebue stated that the group was expecting more educational growth in the state from the present governor who is an academic.
Also speaking, the first Female President of the Scientific Products Association of Nigeria (SPAN), Mrs Kate Isa, expressed dismay that laboratory tools in secondary schools in the country were still analogue when there were digital tools that would make students productive.
Isa, delivering a keynote address on “Ending Poverty Through Education: The Role of Women” noted that if government intended to change the economic narratives, they must invest in educational sectors.
She added that this was to produce innovative graduates who could utilise and maximise the resources of the country.
According to Isa, the present curriculum is outdated and cannot produce employable and innovative graduates to drive the economy.
NAN reports that the event had in attendance, the traditional ruler of Achinna, Igwe Godwin Obiora, who commended the group for reviving the community health centre which had reduced mortality rate.
Other dignitaries at the event included the Chairman of the Council of Legal Education, Chief Emeka Ngige, SAN; Justice Ebimie Okara, a serving Judge in Bayelsa and business moguls among others.
Share this on WhatsApp