Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
Former Governor Akinwumi Ambode of Lagos State may have risen to subtly challenge the status quo in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State for the party’s governorship ticket in the preparations for the 2023 general elections. The former governor may be taking on the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and APC Governing Advisory Council (GAC) members who had endorsed Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for a second term ticket, thus shutting down open contests in the party.
Ambode, however, is not personally in the governorship race for the APC ticket in Lagos, but may be supporting his political ally, Wale Oluwo, to challenge Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who is seeking a second term ticket of the state APC.
This was cemented by the endorsement of the governor for second term by the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a presidential aspirant for the 2023 general elections.  The decision of the party leader, as well as the State APC structure, essentially, the Governing Advisory Council (GAC), are not usually questioned by party stakeholders in the state.
Several APC stakeholders who initially had intention to aspire for the APC governorship ticket in Lagos State had abandoned the race after Tinubu endorsed Sanwo-Olu for second term, as well as the APC GAC.
Wale Oluwo, former Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources in Lagos State in the Ambode administration, submitted his governorship Interest Declaration and Nomination forms at the APC collection centre – International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, on Wednesday.
Wale Oluwo, Chairman of Akinwumi Ambode Campaign Organization, expressed optimism that he would stop Sanwo-Olu from a second term in Lagos.
The Ambode group had after the endorsement of Sanwo-Olu by the GAC, challenged the decision, arguing that the governorship race is open I n Lagos and not closed for one person by the APC GAC in the state. The APC State Working Committee had responded that the Anmbode group was faceless, adding that all groups in the state APC have been dissolved. The rise of Wale Oluwo who submitted his governorship forms in Abuja last Wednesday appears to overturn the monolithic structure of the Lagos APC which the state leadership battles to protect.
Meanwhile, Sanwo-Olu is riding on the horse of two strong political blocs in Lagos State – the Mandate group, led by Tinubu, and the Justice group, led by late Oba Mufutau Olatunji Hamzat, Oba of Afawore Sogade, Ogun State, a political ally of Tinubu in Lagos State before he became a traditional ruler. He was the father of the Deputy Governor of Lagos, Babafemi Hamzat, who will be contesting jointly with Sanwo-Olu for re-election.
The Ambode group, sponsoring Oluwo, would have to crack the two political groups to win the Lagos APC governorship ticket in May 18 when the governorship primaries hold.
Share this on WhatsApp