Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
By Kingsley Chukwuka
The Chairman of Langtang North Local Government Council of Plateau State, Hon. Ubandoma Laven has fumed at a N200,000,000 loan being proposed by the sacked LGA Chairman Hon. Zulfa Rimven.
Zulfa who was removed from office by the Appeal Court has approached Zenith, Guarantee Trust and Union Banks in Jos seeking loans instead of obeying court order to vacate office, Ubandoma said.
He however warned the banks not to grant the loan, reminding them of the various court order dismissing Zulfa from office.
Describing Zulfa as an imposter Ubandoma also said the total revenue generated in the local government is only N3,000,000 monthly wondering how the LGA will repay the loan.
Recall that an Appeal Court last week upheld the ruling of a lower court which had earlier sacked Zulfa as Chairman of the Langtang North LGA on the grounds that the tenure of Ubandoma had not expired before the State government held another LGA council election in October 2021.
However, Governor Simon Lalong has refused to comply with the several Court judgement ordering him to allow Ubandoma to complete his tenure.
Zulfa enjoying Gov. Lalong’s favour have continued to sit tight as Chairman.
Fuming at the recent proposed loan by Zulfa, Ubandoma wondering why such loan should be obtained, issued a statement on Thursday warning the banks not to honor the loan.
The statement issued by Ubandoma explained that the loan has gotten the approval of the Langtang North Legislative arm and the Plateau State Ministry for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs.
Ubandoma warned the management of Zenith bank, Guarantee Trust bank (GTB), and Union bank not to enter into any business deals on behalf of Langtang North Local Government Council with Zulfa as there are several court rulings ordering him to vacate office and stop parading himself as the Chairman of Langtang North Local Government.
According to the statement: “It is on record that the said Mr. Zulfa is not the Chairman of Langtang North Local Government Council, the Federal Court of Appeal Jos division has on Friday, May 6th, 2022 upheld a high court judgment which returned Hon. Ubandoma Laven to complete his tenure in office as the Executive Chairman of Langtang North Local Government Council.
“It is disheartening that where salaries of local government staff and teachers have not been paid for 4months, the imposter wants to further impoverished the poor staff and pensioners”, the statement reads in part.
When contacted, Zulfa said Ubandoma is only ranting on media space saying that the loan has already been approved by relevant bodies.
 
Share this on WhatsApp