Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

roots for Chibuike Amaechi

Engr. Muritala Salau Audu, a Chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun state convinced by the worthy feats of former Governor Chibuike Amaechi in virtually all arms of government, has counseled national delegates to ensure his emergence as the party’s Presidential candidate.

In the counsel coming ahead of the APC presidential primaries slated to hold in Abuja,Engr. Muritala who doubles as the South West Coordinator of a pro Amaechi group,The Movement of Progressive Youth of Nigeria (Chibuike Amaechi Disciples) MAPYON,cited Amaechi’s clearly unmatched capabilities garnered across the three arms of government and the depth of impact he made in the nation’s transport sector as a plus for him.

According to Engr Muritala, this is the time in Nigeria’s history when political leaders who are in the struggle towards better governance should look at aspirants’ history, track record, capacity, and ability before deciding on who to support to clinch the APC presidential ticket.

“The onus expressly lies on the distinguished National delegates of our great party All Progressives Congress (APC) to produce the next President of Nigeria, it will  be apt for them to elect a candidate who is coming with positive vision, track record of experience, intelligence, vibrancy, political will and sincerity.

Engr Muritala who is a staunch party leader in Sagamu LGA in Ogun State noted that Amaechi is one of the top aspirants contending for the reins of power in Nigeria’s Aso Villa.

Stating unequivocally that he (Amaechi) is an embodiment of so many great attributes that befits a President Nigeria needs now, Muritala urged delegates to  look at what he his bringing on-board, which will consequently translate to a prosperous Nigeria for us all and help sustain the reign of the party in Nigeria.

Muritala also enumerated all the good standings of Amaechi politically adding that he is the golden hand Nigeria needs at this moment because of his experience in Government.

Highlighting his feats, he noted that Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi has served at all arms of Government being a former legislator (later Speaker), former Governor and a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

“At all these levels of service he had made tremendous changes that positively affected human endeavors.

“Most recently, his stint at the Nigeria’s ministry of Transportation has brighten up the sector and critically rejigged our ailing infrastructural sector.

“If we really want to chart a new course for Nigeria, keep the country united, improve our economy, fight corruption, provide jobs for the teeming youths, build infrastructure and strengthen our security architecture, Rt Hon Rotimi Amaechi is the ultimate answer and the solution to a prosperous Nigeria.

“I therefore urge our distinguished delegates to vote for him at the coming Presidential primaries of our great party APC”, Engr Muritala reiterated.

 
Share this on WhatsApp