Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveThe Lagos State Government has warned operators of illegal abattoirs and unapproved slaughter slabs in the state to desist from the act or face the full wrath of the law.
Dr Gbolabo Kehinde, the leader, Monitoring, Enforcement and Compliance (MEC) Team, Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture, said this on Thursday in Lagos.
Kehinde led the team and taskforce on an advocacy and enlightenment campaign to the butchers in some identified illegal abattoirs in the state.
He said that the ministry embarked on the advocacy and enlightenment campaign to ensure healthy food from farm to table.
Kehinde said that illegal abattoirs were located on Iganmu Street, Lagos Island and Dosunmu, off Freeman Street and Lagos Island areas of the state.
The News Agency of Nigeria reports that during the visit of the team to some of the illegal abattoirs, some of the operators made spirited attempts to quickly clear their slabs.
Kehinde urged the butchers to stop their illegal activities saying that, the state government has started the construction of a modern abattoir at Simpson to cater for the people on Lagos Island.
“The government does not want you to operate this illegal abattoirs henceforth. We have raided this place severally and you have continued your illegal activities.
“There are approved abattoirs at strategic locations such as Itire, Bariga and Ijora.
“You can use these ones pending when the one at Simpson will be completed.
“You can go there to slaughter your animals and bring it here for distribution but you must apply for a meat shop permit.
“The next time we come here, we will not tolerate any illegal activities. We received information from residents of your illegal activities,” he said.
One of the the chairmen of the illegal abattoir who spoke on anonymity said that the Iganmu and Lagos Island illegal abattoirs had been in operation for over 10 years.
He said an average of 10 cows were slaughtered on daily basis there.
He, however, complained about the distance, cost of logistics from Lagos Island to the approved abattoir in Bariga.
He pleaded with the state government to ensure quick completion of the approved abattoir under construction in the area.
“This place has been operating for over 18 years and is one of the oldest in the area. We will obey the government directive,” he said.
Mr Shehu Omoowo-Olatunji, Secretary of the Freelance Butchers Association of Nigeria, Lagos Island, said the meat sharing house was established in 2020.
“We are newly formed, we started operation three years ago during the COVID-19 pandemic, to enable people have access to meat,” Omoowo-Olatunji said.
He said the group was already in consultation with the ministry on how to achieve standard meat shop.
“We are trying to meet the requirement for a standard meat shop. We have been told that we can’t continue to operate in open place. We need to apply for a permit for meat shop,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp