Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), has said that it will continue to embark on policies and regulatory guidelines that will address the concerns of the physically challenged regarding Information Communication Technology (ICT), accessibility.
Speaking at a forum organised for persons with disabilities held at Suleja, Niger state, with theme: Inclusiveness of Persons with Disabilities Awareness and Engagement Program, the Director Zonal Operation Department, NCC, Amina Shehu said the forum was aimed at bridging existing digital divide.
She explained that the need for everyone to have access to ICT services is the basis for the inclusion of a forum for people living with disabilities.
Shehu who was represented by an Assistant Director of the Commission, Isa Olatinwo, noted that the commission will constantly embark on some initiatives to transform our society from social exclusion to an all-inclusion society that guarantees communication services for all.
READ ALSO: NCC to boost national revenue, inaugurates joint committee with FIRS
“The key objective of the programme is to ensure that in the provision of communications services, there is improved accessibility and inclusiveness for person(s) living with disabilities in Nigeria.
“Nigerian Legislation for the Welfare of People Living With Physical Disabilities Section 16(2)(d) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provides that the state shall direct its policy towards ensuring the welfare of the person(s) with disability as provided for all citizens.
“Furthermore, one of the objectives of the NCA 2003 as stated in Section 1(h) is to ensure that the needs of the disabled and elderly persons are taken into consideration in the provision of communications services.
Suleja Local Government Chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Shaibu, commended the NCC for helping to protect the disable against cybercrimes, says the knowledge impacted by the commission today, is beneficial to both people with disabilities and the able.
He encouraged the participants to use the opportunity of the program to ask all necessary questions on ways they can protect themselves and their phone in order to catch on the gains of digital inclusiveness.
Earlier in his goodwill message, Okoli Henry, a Superintendent of the Nigeria Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), while commending the NCC, admonished the participants to take the program seriously as it would afford them the necessary knowledge and enlightenment needed to become digitally inclusive.
 
Share this on WhatsApp