Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love


The main opposition party in Nigeria has witnessed several defections ahead of the party’s primaries and the 2023 presidential election.

In this article, we will examine why it might be difficult for the PDP to win the 2023 general election.
1. Defection of influential party members: This is one of the variables that could affect the party in the presidential election. This is because the party is losing influential politicians, and this could affect the party’s votes in 2023. For example, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso is one of the most influential politicians in the North-west zone. His defection from the PDP to the NNPP could affect the party because his supporters will move with him. And if you are familiar with the numbers in the North, you will agree with me that he is influential, especially in Kano State, which is the largest politically populated state in Nigeria. So, it is most likely that the migration of his supporters would affect the party’s vote in the North.
2. South-east dilemma: This is another crisis that could affect the party. This is because numerous party members from the Southeastern zone believe that the 2023 presidency should be zoned to them. The withdrawal of Peter Obi, who is one of the top candidates, could affect the party’s votes in the South-east.
Peter’s withdrawal from the presidential race has reduced the chances of a South-east President in the PDP. His supporters will definitely migrate with him. Now, if the APC decides to bring out a consensus candidate from the South-East, it is most likely that the People’s Democratic Party will lose in the South-East. This is because the agitation for a South-east president is expanding. And the people will rather support a South-east candidate, not minding the party, than a candidate from another zone.In conclusion, the North-west and the South-east are the strongholds of the PDP. And if the PDP is already having issues in the zones, it will be difficult for them to defeat the ruling APC.


Share this on WhatsApp