Chechen unit - known as Kadyrovtsy - in Mariupol holding firearms in front of a burning building 
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveRamzan Kadyrov, leader of Russia’s Chechnya region and a staunch ally of President Putin, claims to have sent 1,000 elite fighters to fight in Ukraine. The Chechen warriors often share videos of military drills online which has gained them a fearsome reputation. Eyewitnesses have claimed that a particularly ruthless sect of Chechen soldiers executed “heavily wounded” Russian troops in a “field hospital” that was situated northwest of Bucha.
Bucha, a residential suburb of the capital Kyiv, shocked the world in April after Ukrainian authorities found mass graves and evidence of torture after Russian troops had withdrawn.
According to residents of the town, the killer squad of Chechen fighters – known as Kadyrovtsy – had executed people as early as March 5.
Mr Kadyrov’s men have few friends in the Russian army, where resentment left over from bloody wars in Chechnya in the 1990s still runs high.
The Kadyrovtsy, who have been used as a PR tool in Putin’s war, allegedly murdered their own comrades and “operated a torture chamber” in a glass factory on Yablonska Street.
The latest claims seem to corroborate previous reports by Ukraine’s ombudsman for human rights, Lyudmila Denisova.
Deputy Commander of Ukraine’s Territorial Defence Forces, Artem Hurin, was one of the first to visit Borodyanka, northwest of Bucha after Ukrainian forces recaptured the town April 2.
Mr Hurin, who is also a member of the city council in the neighbouring town Irpin, said: “They would bring heavily wounded Russian soldiers to a big hospital they had there, and those who were very heavily wounded, they would just shoot them. No one other than the Kadyrovtsy did this.”
He told the Daily Beast a string of disturbing stories from residents who were tortured and raped by the Russian troops and witnessed “executed civilians” in the street.
Share this on WhatsApp