Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Considering the mounting evidence of adverse effects and lack of effectiveness, some physicians and health agencies are calling for the immediate withdrawal of the COVID-19 vaccines.
A previously healthy 36-year-old mother of two died 11 days after receiving a Pfizer COVID-19 shot. Initially, her cause of death was deemed inconclusive, but at an inquest, pathologist Dr. Sukhvinder Ghataura explained that he believes the COVID-19 shot was to blame.
He told the coroner: “On the balance of probabilities, she had vaccine-related problems. There is nothing else for me to hang my hat on. It is the most likely reason, in my conclusion. It is more than likely Dawn died in response to the Covid jab.”
Government officials continue to deny deaths linked to Pfizer’s mRNA COVID-19 shot.
In the U.S., they’ve acknowledged only nine deaths as causally associated with Johnson and Johnson’s COVID-19 shot as of May 10. But this case, which occurred in the U.K., highlights the potential dangers of shot-induced myocarditis.
READ ALSO: COVID vaccine: WHO leading imposition of hardly tested mixtures
According to Ghataura, the woman had several signs of myocarditis, or inflammation of the heart muscle, including inflammation of the heart, fluid in the lungs and a small clot in her lungs.
She had also reported menstrual irregularities, jaw pain and arm pain. When asked by a family member whether he believed the woman would still be alive today if she hadn’t received the shot, Ghataura said, “It’s a difficult question but I would say yes.”
Dr. Neil Singh Dhalla, a CEO of a major health clinic, fell asleep four days after he got a COVID-19 booster shot — and died from a heart attack.
The autopsy stated myocarditis. He was only 48 years old and had never had heart problems in his life. In another example, epidemiologists confirmed that two teenage boys from different U.S. states died of myocarditis days after getting the Pfizer shot.
Both had received second doses of the shot. In a study that examined the autopsy findings, it’s reported that the “myocarditis” described in the boys’ deaths is “not typical myocarditis pathology”:
It’s clear that there are many unknowns about how COVID-19 shots affect pregnancy and reproduction, including their effects on menstrual cycles. Women around the globe have reported changes in their menstrual cycles following COVID-19 shots, and health officials have tried to brush off the reports or label them all as anecdotal.
Meanwhile, Moderna CEO, Stéphane Bancel has revealed that over 30 million vaccine doses are going to be thrown away because nobody wants them again.
“It’s sad to say, I’m in the process of throwing 30 million doses into the garbage because nobody wants them,” Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said this week. “We have a big demand problem.”

Share this on WhatsApp