Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveGovernor Charles Soludo of Anambra state has eventually voiced out his disappointment on assumption of office after succeeding his party man Willie Obiano.
According to Soludo, the new administration inherited a “red treasury and pervasive insecurity”.
He said this Thursday during his presentation of the N170 billion revised 2022 budget proposal to the Anambra House of Assembly.
Obiano attempted to bail out of the country the moment he handed over to Soludo.
But the EFCC arrested and detained him for days before releasing him on bail.
“We have seriously started reforming our system of tax administration to significantly ramp up our internally generated revenue over the coming years. In the meantime, the dire needs of Ndi Anambra and our transformation agenda cannot wait.
“We are working on a mixture of financing options including debt that is ring-fenced to fund bankable projects and/or infrastructure with impacts on the economy to guarantee efficient and effective service delivery to our people while ensuring fiscal sustainability over the medium to longer terms.”
The Governor also disclosed that his administration would partner with international developmental organisations, the private sector as well as the federal government to achieve some of the projects of his administration.
“We are reforming our processes and ramping up our active engagements to maximize the benefits of such partnerships,” he added
“For example, we have budgeted to meet our counterpart funding requirements to access federal and development partner funds.”
He spoke about effort to improve security in the state , too.
“We have chosen to confront the foundational issue of security head-on and expected that those profiting from the lucrative criminal enterprise would viciously fight back, and they have.
“Criminals taking the seven local governments of the (Anambra) South Senatorial Zone hostage were the most acute. They are testing our will and resolve. (But) let me assure you this: Anambra will win.”
Share this on WhatsApp