Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


Chelsea are said to be open for a double swap deal with Barcelona this summer that can finally sign the Blues’ long-term target, who was previously eyed as Ben Chilwell’s backup


Chelsea are open to a double swap-deal with Barcelona in summer transfer window, according to Spanish outlet Sport. The report claims that the Blues would secure the services of long-term targets Sergino Dest and Neto in return for Cesar Azpilicueta and Marcos Alonso, who have each been linked with moves to the Camp Nou lately.
Andreas Christensen is already said to have made a pre-contract agreement with Xavi’s side once his deal at Stamford Bridge expires in the coming weeks. Azpilicueta and Alonso, who have both courted interest from the Spanish giants, are reportedly keen on following the Denmark international, but Barcelona must wait until the west London club’s takeover saga has been resolved.
Thomas Tuchel’s captain has already been offered a deal by the Spanish outfit, according to Goal. The report claims that Barcelona are willing to give Azpilicueta a pay rise and a two-year contract, with an option for an extra year.
The 32-year-old captain has reportedly learned that he can rake in £11 million a season before tax at Camp Nou. Due to ongoing financial woes at Barcelona, Xavi’s side are unable to pay a substantial fee for the Chelsea defenders, who each have twelve months remaining on their deals at Stamford Bridge.
Therefore, this summer due to Financial Fair Play restrictions placed on them by La Liga, a deal can only be completed with the Blues if a sale elsewhere can fund said transfers or if a a swap-deal is engineered. So, according to Spanish outlet Sport, Xavi’s side have offered Chelsea Dest and Neto, who have both been linked with the World champions this season.
In the January transfer window, the European champions registered interest in Dest, according to Spanish outlet Mundo Deportivo. Though, at the time, Barcelona were prepared to accept an offer of below €20m (£16.7m) for the 21-year-old.
The report claimed that the United States international’s intention was to stay at the Spanish club, which put the west Londoners back to square one in their mission to find cover for an injured Ben Chilwell.




Share this on WhatsApp