Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
 
The Nigerian Telecommunication Commission (NCC), on Thursday 19 May, 2022, in Abuja organised a Sensitization Programme to mark this year’s Girls in ICT Day 2022.
The programme was held at the Government Science Technical College, Garki Abuja with the theme: Access and Safety.
Girls in ICT is an initiative of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), the global body responsible for setting Telecommunications standards.
The day is aimed at encouraging girls to pursue studies and careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), particularly, ICT.
The day is celebrated globally on the fourth Thursday of April which happened to be April, 28th, 2022.
The Leader of the Team, Mrs. Tokunbo Oyeleye, Deputy Director, New Media & Information Security Department, Nigerian Communications Commission said, “The theme for this year, ACCESS and safety is meant to create discussions on access and safety barriers girls face when they pursue STEM studies and careers.”
READ ALSO: NCC celebrates World Telecommunications Day with stakeholders in Abuja
Speaking at the event, an Early Career Fellowship facilitator of Internet Society (ISOC) and partner to the Commission on Child Online Protection, Ebuka Nkoro charged the students to become Digital superheroes.
He highlighted some tips for online safety which includes: using very strong passwords, 8-10 digit passwords, using password managers and installing good anti viruses.
According to him, “Types of online risks are: content risk, contact risk, conduct, and commercial risk.”
He warned Internet users to beware of their digital footprints; these are trails of your activities and interactions in the internet that are recorded or collected without your knowledge.
In his words: “Do not share or Post unnecessary things, and especially nude pictures of yourself.
Beware of online swindlers. They are scammers who will express strong loving emotions for you but they are not genuine.”
Ebuka who encouraged the students to avoid online bullies and not to be one also said they should improve themselves and social life by reading books and exercising.
Share this on WhatsApp