Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 


It is no longer news that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) conducted a screening session for aspirants contesting for its highly coveted presidential ticket.
The screening session, which is being conducted at the prestigious Transcorp Hilton Hotel in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), is being presided over by a committee headed by former Edo State Governor and former APC national chairman, John Oyegun.The process is expected to last for two days.
While aspirants like Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Badaru, and former Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba were among the first to face the John Oyegun panel, it was, however, the screening session of former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu that has sent many tongues wagging on social media.
According to a video shared by Joe Igbokwe on his Facebook page, Jagaban was seen having what seemed like a casual chat with the committee during his screening session.
In the footage, the self-styled APC National Leader could be seen gesticulating excitedly while discussing the impact of the Real Estate sector in the United States of America and the United Kingdom.
Mr. Igbokwe, who happens to be a staunch supporter of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, went on to claim that the former Lagos Governor was handing out a lecture to the John Oyegun-led screening panel.

Meanwhile, there are indications that Tinubu has been given the all-clear to contest the APC’s presidential ticket at the party’s upcoming primary.
Jagaban was given the nod despite petitions that were submitted to the screening panel against him by a Kano-based member of the ruling party.
In the petitions, submitted by one Sagir Mai Iyali, Jagaban was accused of falsifying his age, forging his university certificate, and concealing a drug charge that he allegedly had in the United State in the early 90s. All allegations were, however, waived aside by the screening committee for lack of proper evidence.


Share this on WhatsApp