APC Sokoto Presidential rally
        
 

Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveAhead of the 2023 election, a coalition of religious clerics and child right activists and monarchs, has called on politicians not to allow young children to take part in their political rallies and campaigns in communities.
The General overseer of Christ Evangelical and Life Intervention Ministry, Pastor Yohanna Buru, made the call during an interview with the press on Friday in Kaduna.
Buru also called on politicians to discourage any under-aged persons and teenagers from participating in their political rallies and campaigns in their communities and cities.
According to him, they decided to form a coalitions of religious leaders and monarchs with child activists that would advise all the political aspirant on better ways to promote sustainable democracy and good governance in Nigeria.
He said “Nigerian politicians should stop using thugs during political campaigns in order to encourage good leadership in any democratic government.
He said as politicians commence campaigns across the 36 states of Nigeria, there is the need for them not to allow minors to be take part in the rallies in most communities.
The Clerics also drew the attention of traditional rulers, women organizations, youth groups, community elders not to allow teenagers to be part of any political campaign across the country.
Buru further called on non governmental organizations (NGOs) that promote democratic governance, concerned citizens of Nigeria and the National orientation agency to always sensitize youth groups on voting rights at the age of 18 years.
Meanwhile, the National president of parents/teacher association of Nigeria, Alhaji Haruna Danjuma, has called on parents to always monitor the movement of their children.
Danjuma also appealed to women organizations to equally join the campaign against drug abuse in their communities.
While contributing, the national president, foundation for the protection of women and children in Nigeria, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani, called on all activists to embark on ceaseless campaign toward sensitizing the general public on reducing gender-based violence in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp