Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The bid of Lagos West Senator, Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi) to relocate to Ogun West for the purpose of contesting for senatorial seat in the 2023 election may have hit a brick wall following opposition by some leaders in the state.
Adeola has been having a running battle with some APC leaders in the senatorial district, otherwise known as Yewa/Awori who questioned the morality and legality of his ambition having played his politics for nearly 20 years in Lagos State.
The party elders including the former Minister of Education (State), Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, spoke in Ilaro, Yewa South Local Government Area of the state, during the meeting of Ogun West stakeholders.
The meeting tagged “Preserving The Integrity of Ogun West Senatorial District,” had in attendance the former commissioners, Local Government Chairmen and members of the State House of Assembly, from the region.
READ ALSO: Ogun 2023: Gov Abiodun receives N50m re-election forms from supporters
Speaking at the stakeholders’ meeting, the APC leaders in their separate remarks described Adeola’s ambition as an aberration and illegal.
They also condemned alleged endorsement of Adeola as the flag bearer of APC by some leaders of Ogun West, insisting that such a position didn’t represent the collective interest of the area.
Anisulowo said, “The take home from this meeting is that we are not accepting a stranger to come and take our resources and our inheritance in this place.
“I’m not questioning his coming, wanting to live here, but I’m questioning his politics and that he wants to come and take what belongs to us.”
Also speaking, an 84 year old APC Chieftain, Mrs Mary Ogunjobi said “What we are doing today is to counter the endorsement of a foreigner, by trying to destroy Ogun West. Our property (referring to the Senate seat is not for sale.
“Anybody that sells our property will suffer for it.”
The duo of Anisulowo and Ogunjobi challenged the youths to speak up against the plan to cede the Ogun West senatorial seat to the “stranger.”
The former Chairman of Yewa South Local Government, Hon Jimoh Akinlade, called on the leadership of the party to address the concern before it “leads to an embarrassment for the party.”
Akinlade said “They should try to review what is going on in Ogun West Senatorial District, if they fail to do this, there is a doom ahead somehow. We love the party, we love what the governor is doing, we don’t want any embarrassment for the governor, and hence, they do the right thing.”
In a communique issued after the meeting, the elders resolved that leaders and party stakeholders in the region have neither endorsed nor ceded the APC senatorial ticket to Senator Adeola.
“We condemn in totality, the attempt by the serving Senator representing Lagos West Senatorial District, Olamilekan Solomon Adeola, known as ‘YAYI’, to jump ship and seek the mandate of Ogun West Senatorial district while still holding on the one he currently occupies; a blatant illegality of the most despicable order.
“We must reiterate that Ogun West is arrayed with patriotic and morally upright leaders who will not betray their fatherland by supporting illegality and assault on the land. Distinguished Senator Ayo Otegbola, Senator Akin Odunsi, Senator Kola Bajomo, Senator Gbolahan Dada, Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, Hon Jimoh Olaifa, Hon. Kola Lawal, Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, Hon Biodun Akinlade, Chief Biyi Otegbeye, Hon Salmon Adeleke and Chief Mrs Mary Ogunjobi and Mr Tope Kuyebi are notable names among several others, who are not part of the evil plot to foist the Lagos Senator on Ogun West.

Share this on WhatsApp