Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

A 52-year-old man identified as Kabiru Abdullahi has been arrested by the NSCDC for allegedly kidnapping and killing a five-year-old girl after collecting ransom from her parents in Narabi, Bauchi.
The suspect reportedly connived with one Alhaji Yawale to carry out his actions.
Nurudeen Abdullahi, state commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, revealed that the suspects kidnapped the victim in front of their house and took her to a bridge where they strangled and put her into a sack.
They later took the body of the deceased to Kabiru’s kitchen and buried her there.
They proceeded to contact her father and demanded a ransom of 1million but were paid N150,000.
He said, “On April 23, 2022, around 7.30pm, information was received on the alleged kidnap of a five-year-old girl, Amina Abdullahi, at Sabon Gari Narabi, Toro LGA, Bauchi State.
READ ALSO: Police arrest man who abducted children from church
“NSCDC officers attached to the Toro division swung into action and arrested the following suspects: Kabiru Abdullahi, 52, (direct neighbour) and Alhaji Yawale, 45.
“Preliminary investigation revealed that the prime suspect, Kabiru, kidnapped Amina in front of her house, took her to a nearby bridge, strangled her and put her in a sack.
“He contacted the father of the victim, Yusuf Abdullahi, and demanded a ransom. After a series of negotiations, it was agreed that the sum of N150,000 be paid for her release.
“His accomplice, Alhaji Yawale, collected the sum of N150,000 under a tamarind tree in the bush at Narabi village.
“Further investigation revealed that Amina was killed on April 27, 2022, and buried inside the kitchen of the prime suspect.
“A team of investigators dug the sack from the ground and took the body to the General Hospital, Toro, where she was certified dead by a medical doctor.”
He added that they recovered exhibits such as the sum of N42,000, fake $200 notes, charms, two MTN SIM cards, different car keys and phone numbers from the suspects.
Abdullahi said the suspects would be handed to the police for further investigations.

Share this on WhatsApp