Share this on WhatsAppSpread the loveLola Cater for the Needy Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation, has called for an end to ‘period shaming’, a situation which has to do with discrimination faced by females who menstruate.
Miss Ololade Ogunnubi, founder of the foundation, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Abuja.
She said it was important to raise awareness on the issue, as most girls are faced with one form of stigmatisation whenever they menstruate.
She added that lack of adequate information about menstruation had led to damaging misconceptions and discrimination, which according to her had caused young girls to miss school days.
Ogunnubi added that on its part, her foundation would be embarking on a donation drive to make sanitary products like pads and other menstrual kits more accessible to those in need.
“We will be teaching no fewer than 700 young girls and boys across different schools on menstruation, menstrual hygiene management and period shaming.
“Educating both girls and boys will help build their confidence, contribute to social solidarity and encourage healthy menstrual hygiene habits.
“Many girls do not have complete and accurate understanding of menstruation as a normal biological process.
“We will also focus on enlightening 700 rural women and girls on how to make reusable sanitary pads in 14 states in the country.
“We want to create a situation where people understand that menstruation is a biological process and that they can menstruate without missing out.
“That era of fear or shame that accompanies menstruation must come to an end and we want to make these kits easily available for them, so that they will not have to miss school days or special outings just because they are menstruating,” she said.
NAN reports that the day celebrated annually on May 28, has “Making menstruation a normal fact of life by 2030”, as theme for this year’s celebration.
The day aims to create awareness about menstruation, provide safe and hygienic practices to girls, and eradicate persisting taboos and stigma about menstruation.
Share this on WhatsApp