Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 

The documents were first leaked in a cyber-attack on the European Medicines Agency website. More than 40 megabytes of classified information from the agency’s review were published on the dark web, and several journalists including those at the British Medical Journal were sent copies of the leak.
In the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration had previously agreed to withhold the documents and their jaw-dropping revelations from the public for 75 years, until Texas District Judge Mark Pittman ordered their release within eight months, stating it was ‘of paramount public importance’.
Most alarmingly of all, the documents show that in the trials there were at least 1,223 deaths reported in the first 28 days after injection.
The NHS, media and the government continually state that the vaccines are ‘safe and effective’ while those that report vaccine related injuries via the Yellow Card scheme are often accused of making false correlations or imagining their symptoms.
READ ALSO: COVID vaccines have failed, not effective – Experts
However, the Pfizer documents paint a very different picture, listing thousands of side effects that occurred at an alarming rate, which were as a direct result of taking the experimental genetic injection.
According to their report, Pfizer hired 600 extra staff to handle the sheer number of adverse reactions from its covid-19 shot, and said it had planned to hire 1,800 in total.
Serious side effects included, but were not limited to: auto-immune disorders; blindness; diabetes; herpes; heart problems such as myocarditis; thyroid disorders; neurological conditions such as multiple sclerosis; seizures; epilepsy; narcolepsy and Guillain-Barré Syndrome.
Non-fatal conditions such as eczema, blisters, asthma, fertility problems, inflammatory bowel disease, deafness and even tongue biting are also listed among the side effects by Pfizer.
While it has been approved for use in pregnant women, it is also known to cause pregnancy complications, including many spontaneous abortions. One of the many issues it causes is anaphylactoid syndrome of pregnancy or ASP for short.
READ ALSO: COVID-19: How the world was conned
ASP is a fatal disease for mothers and is among the leading causes of maternal mortality. Symptoms include severe bleeding, confusion, shortness of breath and anxiety. There is therefore a high risk for pregnant women taking the COVID ‘vaccine’.
The Pfizer document also lists various blood disorders, Crohn’s disease and liver failure as side effects. Blood clotting was another issue reported from the trials.
One of the most telling side effects listed is… COVID-19. Proponents often argue that despite the possible side effects associated with some of the COVID shots, they at least prevent people from dying from covid-19.
The problem is that the ‘vaccine’ actually causes people to develop the disease, and so it is contributing to the number of cases, listing covid-19- associated pneumonia as a side effect.
Some may argue that these problems are only associated with the Pfizer shot, but death and serious injuries have been present and publicly acknowledged with all of the manufacturers’ injections.
Research developed by Edinburgh University showed that almost 350 Britons have been struck down with a rare clotting disorder after getting the
AstraZeneca vaccine. These blood clots cause minor bruising around the body and can leave some with a purple-dotted rash. The Moderna vaccine has been associated with heart problems such as myocarditis and pericarditis.
Their list of adverse reactions also includes inflammation, fainting and breathing difficulties. Data from the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) in the table on page 2 has also revealed that both covid-19 deaths and cases were worse in vaccinated people, particularly those over the age of 18. The official data is clear: the chances of developing covid-19 increases significantly following subsequent ‘booster’ jabs.
This is broadly in line with the information contained in the Pfizer document, which states that the shots cause covid-19 and respiratory illnesses.
Coupled with the fact that ONS data recently revealed that COVID deaths were much lower than previously thought, the risks of taking the vaccine seem to greatly outweigh the risks of not doing so.
Share this on WhatsApp