Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love 
The African gambling population continues to grow at an exponential rate, with many in the continent to have been found regularly participating in the activity across various forms of wagering activities.
According to research, it is believed that around 35% of the total population is enjoying gambling at the moment, although those figures are yet to be broken down regarding the type of wagering that is being enjoyed and participated in.
However, what can not be denied is the fact that online gambling has taken off, and many are now seeking the best ways in which they can regularly gamble with the best experiences. Hence, this has perhaps continued to the rise of a Bitcoin casino, as these platforms provide an entirely new way to enjoy one of their favorite pastimes.
Why has Bitcoin become so popular to gamble with?
There are many reasons why Africans have started to enjoy a Bitcoin casino, with a range of different advantages being experienced when it is used to play with. One of the reasons for so many different advantages is the fact that it utilizes blockchain technology and is a decentralized currency.
The use of blockchain means players are able to enjoy transactions that can provide them with a level of anonymity, as well as enhanced security, whilst the decentralized nature will benefit African players as it means it is not tied to fiat currency, thus potentially allowing them to avoid economic issues including inflation that can be traditionally witnessed across the continent.
How is Bitcoin used at a casino?
Thankfully, it is extremely easy to use Bitcoin at a casino that accepts it, as the process of making transactions with this form of crypto is very similar to the processes that would have been experienced when using an online casino and fiat currency.
One of the biggest pluses regarding making a cryptocurrency transaction, though, will be the fact that the currency is decentralized, thus meaning banks can be bypassed which saves punters money and makes transactions take place in an instant.
So, what do we do when making a transaction? Follow these simple steps to enjoy a seamless process:

Make sure to check out the reputation of the platform first to ensure it is safe to use.
Obtain a Bitcoin wallet first if you do not have one. This is where the crypto will be stored and will need to be moved from.
If you have a wallet, immediately head to the chosen platform and your account.
Make the deposit following all of the steps that can typically be found when going through the process.
Double-check your account to make sure the funds have been deposited. Remember, any crypto transaction is instant, so it should be there immediately.

It is wise to know at this stage that the process to withdraw your funds is also the same.
Why is Bitcoin gambling the way to go for Africans?
There are a host of advantages and benefits that can be enjoyed when using crypto to gamble with, with many of them being beneficial for much of the African population. We have already mentioned many of them throughout this article, but here are some of the biggest reasons why using Bitcoin can be considered the way forward:

Decentralized: With Bitcoin decentralized, Africans have full control over what they want to do with it and are not subject to intrusion from banks or government institutions.
No tax: Players will not be taxed on any Bitcoin transactions made, thus saving them money.
Secured gambling: Africans can enjoy greater protections when playing with Bitcoin, whilst also being able to experience a degree of anonymity that can help to further protect themselves and their identities.
Time is saved: As mentioned, Bitcoin provides the ability to have instant transactions. There is no waiting around for transactions to be processed, which could be a huge advantage when using offshore platforms.
Minimal fees: Low transaction fees – or sometimes zero fees – can be experienced when using Bitcoin as it is decentralized and does not require a middleman to process it.

Final Thoughts
There you have it, the reasons why African gamblers should be looking to use a Bitcoin casino in the future and why it has to be considered the way forward!
Share this on WhatsApp