Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

The Diocesan Bishop of Lagos West, Anglican Communion, Right Reverend Dr. James Odedeji has charged Nigerians to be hopeful and prayerful despite the prevailing circumstances in the country.
He gave the charge at the second session of the 8th Synod of the Diocese held at the Archbishop Vining Memorial Church Cathedral, Ikeja Lagos on Friday, May 20.
Speaking on the Synod theme: “Dry Bones Will Rise Again,” Bishop Odedeji said the theme could refer to dreams, ambitions, and aspirations that have been reduced to nothing.
“Hope is not lost even after a man has died. But when a dead man is buried, what do we say? All hope is lost. But with god, even Lazarus was raised back to life. For nothing will be impossible with God (Luke1:37). Whatever is hopeless in your life will receive new life. When you look at your and all you can see is hopelessness, fear, and you are in a state of despondency, be assured that God is the God of restoration.
READ ALSO: Living Faith Church, Covenant University, Community Development Initiatives donate vehicles to Navy, Police
“Nothing situation is hopeless if God is involved. No matter how bad the situation is, God can still turn it around. With God, there is nothing like hopelessness, no matter how impossible a situation is or seems to be, our God can turn it around. God can turn your sadness to joy and your shame to fame.”
Speaking further, Bishop Odedeji added that dry bones represent something or a situation that may have died, or something that used to be precious. “For example, Sarah thought that she would never be able to bear children – a classic “dry bones” situation.”
“My dear people of God, in times like this, it is important to note one of the most profound statements our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ made. Jesus said, ‘I have told you these things, so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world (John 16:33).
Earlier in his remarks, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who was represented at the Synod by his Snr. Special Assistant on religious affairs Rev’d  Bukola Adeleke said the diocese has been of great spiritual help to the state.
READ ALSO: Anglican Church berates Catholic for wedding Nwobodo, wife
On the synod theme, Dry bones shall rise again, he said, “the significance of the theme is to encourage us to put our trust in God and be assured that he is ever ready to encourage us to put our trust in God. He is ready to renew our lives and turn our stagnant position around”
While enjoining all to draw from this theme, he prayed that Lagosians will continue to experience a positive turnaround and the nation shall experience enduring greatness.
Also talking earlier at the event, The Rt Rev’d Yusuf Janfala of the Diocese of Koi in the North thanked the diocese for always supporting northern Anglican churches, noting that the Diocese’s effort is impacting on many Christians in the north.
“We are indeed grateful to the diocese of Lagos West, especially in the face of persecution we face in the North. The diocese has been very supportive of us in the North. We can only pray that the Lord will continue to bless and keep the diocese in Jesus’ name.”
Share this on WhatsApp