Share this on WhatsAppSpread the love

Wife of Ondo State Governor, Mrs. Betty Akeredolu, has announced her withdrawal from the primaries of All Progressives Congress, APC, for Imo-East Senatorial zone ticket.
In a statement on Sunday, Betty Akeredolu said her decision to withdraw from the race became necessary after she witnessed some irregularities and intimidation.
“I wish to declare my decision to withdraw from the Senatorial Primaries of Imo East Senatorial zone. This decision has become necessary following brazen irregularities, use of force and intimidation meted out on my person and supporters.
“I have received reliable information that arrangements have been concluded by some high authorities within the party to scheme the whole process in favour of a particular candidate. Delegates are being harassed and intimidated to comply with this directive.
“I believe in free and fair elections, equity, and level playing ground. The circumstances that have shrouded events preceding these primaries have proven to be far from the ideals which I hold so dearly. It is expedient therefore for me to withdraw from this race, which I believe is also in the interest of the party in the state.
READ ALSO: Betty Akeredolu advocates gender-friendly policies for female farmers  
“I must, at this juncture, appreciate Ada Owere team, all my friends and supporters who stood by me during this period. Special thanks to the delegates who believed in me but were denied the opportunity to express their support.
“I sincerely apologize to all those who will be disappointed by this decision. Rest assured that your belief in me is greatly appreciated.
“Finally, let me affirm that I will continue to serve the good people of Imo East Senatorial zone and Imo state at large, contributing my quota to the development of a fair and just society.
“Politics should not be a do-or-die affair. I had earlier stated that if I did not emerge as the standard-bearer in a free and fair primary, I would throw my weight behind any of my brothers who emerged.
“All I asked for was a level playing ground where delegates would be allowed to express themselves without fear and intimidation. I sincerely hope that one day, we will get it right” the statement read.
Share this on WhatsApp